The Old Testament of the King James Version of the Bible




The First Book of Moses:  Called Genesis


1:1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

1:2 And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon
the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the
waters.

1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light
from the darkness.

1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night.
And the evening and the morning were the first day.

1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters,
and let it divide the waters from the waters.

1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were
under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament:
and it was so.

1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the
morning were the second day.

1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together
unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

1:10 And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of
the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.

1:11 And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding
seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is
in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

1:12 And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after
his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:13 And the evening and the morning were the third day.

1:14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven
to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for
seasons, and for days, and years: 1:15 And let them be for lights in
the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was
so.

1:16 And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day,
and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.

1:17 And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light
upon the earth, 1:18 And to rule over the day and over the night, and
to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

1:19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving
creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the
open firmament of heaven.

1:21 And God created great whales, and every living creature that
moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind,
and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill
the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

1:23 And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after
his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his
kind: and it was so.

1:25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle
after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness:
and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl
of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over
every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

1:27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created
he him; male and female created he them.

1:28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and
multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth.

1:29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed,
which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which
is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

1:30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air,
and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is
life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.

1:31 And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was
very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.

2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of
them.

2:2 And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and
he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

2:3 And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that
in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.

2:4 These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when
they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the
heavens, 2:5 And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not
caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the
ground.

2:6 But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole
face of the ground.

2:7 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living
soul.

2:8 And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he
put the man whom he had formed.

2:9 And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is
pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the
midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

2:10 And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence
it was parted, and became into four heads.

2:11 The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth the
whole land of Havilah, where there is gold; 2:12 And the gold of that
land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.

2:13 And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that
compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.

2:14 And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which
goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.

2:15 And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of
Eden to dress it and to keep it.

2:16 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the
garden thou mayest freely eat: 2:17 But of the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou
eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

2:18 And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be
alone; I will make him an help meet for him.

2:19 And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the
field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to see
what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living
creature, that was the name thereof.

2:20 And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air,
and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an
help meet for him.

2:21 And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he
slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead
thereof; 2:22 And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made
he a woman, and brought her unto the man.

2:23 And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my
flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.

2:24 Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.

2:25 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not
ashamed.

3:1 Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which
the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said,
Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?  3:2 And the woman said
unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:
3:3 But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden,
God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest
ye die.

3:4 And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: 3:5
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall
be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

3:6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that
it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one
wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto
her husband with her; and he did eat.

3:7 And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they
were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves
aprons.

3:8 And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in
the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the
presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.

3:9 And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art
thou?  3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was
afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

3:11 And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten
of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
3:12 And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she
gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

3:13 And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast
done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

3:14 And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done
this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the
field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the
days of thy life: 3:15 And I will put enmity between thee and the
woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head,
and thou shalt bruise his heel.

3:16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and
thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy
desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

3:17 And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice
of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee,
saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake;
in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; 3:18 Thorns
also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the
herb of the field; 3:19 In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,
till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for
dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

3:20 And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother
of all living.

3:21 Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of
skins, and clothed them.

3:22 And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to
know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also
of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever: 3:23 Therefore the
LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground
from whence he was taken.

3:24 So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden
of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep
the way of the tree of life.

4:1 And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and
said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.

4:2 And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of
sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.

4:3 And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the
fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.

4:4 And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of
the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his
offering: 4:5 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect.
And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

4:6 And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy
countenance fallen?  4:7 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be
accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto
thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.

4:8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when
they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother,
and slew him.

4:9 And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he
said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper?  4:10 And he said, What
hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from
the ground.

4:11 And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her
mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand; 4:12 When thou
tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her
strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.

4:13 And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can
bear.

4:14 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the
earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and
a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one
that findeth me shall slay me.

4:15 And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain,
vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark
upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.

4:16 And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the
land of Nod, on the east of Eden.

4:17 And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he
builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his
son, Enoch.

4:18 And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and
Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.

4:19 And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah,
and the name of the other Zillah.

4:20 And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents,
and of such as have cattle.

4:21 And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such
as handle the harp and organ.

4:22 And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every
artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.

4:23 And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice;
ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to
my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.

4:24 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and
sevenfold.

4:25 And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his
name Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead
of Abel, whom Cain slew.

4:26 And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his
name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.

5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God
created man, in the likeness of God made he him; 5:2 Male and female
created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the
day when they were created.

5:3 And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his
own likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth: 5:4 And
the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years:
and he begat sons and daughters: 5:5 And all the days that Adam lived
were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.

5:6 And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: 5:7 And
Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and
begat sons and daughters: 5:8 And all the days of Seth were nine
hundred and twelve years: and he died.

5:9 And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan: 5:10 And Enos lived
after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons
and daughters: 5:11 And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and
five years: and he died.

5:12 And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel: 5:13 And
Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years,
and begat sons and daughters: 5:14 And all the days of Cainan were
nine hundred and ten years: and he died.

5:15 And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: 5:16
And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:17 And all the days of
Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.

5:18 And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat
Enoch: 5:19 And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years,
and begat sons and daughters: 5:20 And all the days of Jared were nine
hundred sixty and two years: and he died.

5:21 And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: 5:22
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:23 And all the days of Enoch
were three hundred sixty and five years: 5:24 And Enoch walked with
God: and he was not; for God took him.

5:25 And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat
Lamech.

5:26 And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty
and two years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:27 And all the days of
Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.

5:28 And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a
son: 5:29 And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort
us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground
which the LORD hath cursed.

5:30 And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:31 And all the days of Lamech
were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.

5:32 And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham,
and Japheth.

6:1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the
earth, and daughters were born unto them, 6:2 That the sons of God saw
the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of
all which they chose.

6:3 And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for
that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty
years.

6:4 There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that,
when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare
children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of
renown.

6:5 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and
that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil
continually.

6:6 And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it
grieved him at his heart.

6:7 And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the
face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and
the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.

6:8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.

6:9 These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect
in his generations, and Noah walked with God.

6:10 And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

6:11 The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled
with violence.

6:12 And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for
all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.

6:13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me;
for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I
will destroy them with the earth.

6:14 Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the
ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.

6:15 And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The length
of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty
cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.

6:16 A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou
finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side
thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.

6:17 And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the
earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under
heaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall die.

6:18 But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come
into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives
with thee.

6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt
thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be
male and female.

6:20 Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of
every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort
shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.

6:21 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt
gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

6:22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did
he.

7:1 And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the
ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

7:2 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male
and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and
his female.

7:3 Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; to
keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.

7:4 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth
forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have
made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.

7:5 And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.

7:6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was
upon the earth.

7:7 And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives
with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.

7:8 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls,
and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth, 7:9 There went in two
and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had
commanded Noah.

7:10 And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the
flood were upon the earth.

7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month,
the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains
of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

7:12 And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

7:13 In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth,
the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons
with them, into the ark; 7:14 They, and every beast after his kind,
and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that
creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind,
every bird of every sort.

7:15 And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all
flesh, wherein is the breath of life.

7:16 And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as
God had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.

7:17 And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters
increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.

7:18 And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the
earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.

7:19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the
high hills, that were under the whole heaven, were covered.

7:20 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains
were covered.

7:21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and
of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth
upon the earth, and every man: 7:22 All in whose nostrils was the
breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.

7:23 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face
of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the
fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah
only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.

7:24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty
days.

8:1 And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the
cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over
the earth, and the waters asswaged; 8:2 The fountains also of the deep
and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was
restrained; 8:3 And the waters returned from off the earth
continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the
waters were abated.

8:4 And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of
the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.

8:5 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the
tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the
mountains seen.

8:6 And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the
window of the ark which he had made: 8:7 And he sent forth a raven,
which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off
the earth.

8:8 Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were
abated from off the face of the ground; 8:9 But the dove found no rest
for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for
the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his
hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.

8:10 And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the
dove out of the ark; 8:11 And the dove came in to him in the evening;
and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that
the waters were abated from off the earth.

8:12 And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove;
which returned not again unto him any more.

8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the
first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from
off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked,
and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.

8:14 And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the
month, was the earth dried.

8:15 And God spake unto Noah, saying, 8:16 Go forth of the ark, thou,
and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee.

8:17 Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of
all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing
that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the
earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

8:18 And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons'
wives with him: 8:19 Every beast, every creeping thing, and every
fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went
forth out of the ark.

8:20 And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean
beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the
altar.

8:21 And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his
heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; for
the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I
again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

8:22 While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and
heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be
fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

9:2 And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast
of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth
upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are
they delivered.

9:3 Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the
green herb have I given you all things.

9:4 But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall
ye not eat.

9:5 And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of
every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of
every man's brother will I require the life of man.

9:6 Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in
the image of God made he man.

9:7 And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in
the earth, and multiply therein.

9:8 And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 9:9 And
I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after
you; 9:10 And with every living creature that is with you, of the
fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from
all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.

9:11 And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all
flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall
there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.

9:12 And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make
between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for
perpetual generations: 9:13 I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall
be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.

9:14 And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth,
that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: 9:15 And I will remember my
covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all
flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all
flesh.

9:16 And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that
I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living
creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:17 And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which
I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:18 And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and
Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.

9:19 These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth
overspread.

9:20 And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:
9:21 And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered
within his tent.

9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father,
and told his two brethren without.

9:23 And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their
shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their
father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's
nakedness.

9:24 And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had
done unto him.

9:25 And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be
unto his brethren.

9:26 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be
his servant.

9:27 God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of
Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

9:28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.

9:29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and
he died.

10:1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and
Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.

10:2 The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and
Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.

10:3 And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

10:4 And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and
Dodanim.

10:5 By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands;
every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.

10:6 And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.

10:7 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah,
and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.

10:8 And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.

10:9 He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said,
Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.

10:10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and
Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.

10:11 Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the
city Rehoboth, and Calah, 10:12 And Resen between Nineveh and Calah:
the same is a great city.

10:13 And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
10:14 And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and
Caphtorim.

10:15 And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth, 10:16 And the
Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, 10:17 And the Hivite,
and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 10:18 And the Arvadite, and the
Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the
Canaanites spread abroad.

10:19 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest
to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and
Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.

10:20 These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their
tongues, in their countries, and in their nations.

10:21 Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the
brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.

10:22 The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud,
and Aram.

10:23 And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.

10:24 And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.

10:25 And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for
in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.

10:26 And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and
Jerah, 10:27 And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 10:28 And Obal, and
Abimael, and Sheba, 10:29 And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these
were the sons of Joktan.

10:30 And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a
mount of the east.

10:31 These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their
tongues, in their lands, after their nations.

10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their
generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided
in the earth after the flood.

11:1 And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.

11:2 And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they
found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.

11:3 And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn
them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for
morter.

11:4 And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose
top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be
scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.

11:5 And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the
children of men builded.

11:6 And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all
one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be
restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.

11:7 Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that
they may not understand one another's speech.

11:8 So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of
all the earth: and they left off to build the city.

11:9 Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did
there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the
LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.

11:10 These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years
old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: 11:11 And Shem
lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and
daughters.

11:12 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 11:13
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years,
and begat sons and daughters.

11:14 And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 11:15 And Salah
lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:16 And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 11:17 And
Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and
begat sons and daughters.

11:18 And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 11:19 And Peleg
lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:20 And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 11:21 And
Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat
sons and daughters.

11:22 And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 11:23 And Serug
lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and
daughters.

11:24 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 11:25
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years,
and begat sons and daughters.

11:26 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and
Haran.

11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram,
Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.

11:28 And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his
nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.

11:29 And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife
was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of
Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.

11:30 But Sarai was barren; she had no child.

11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's
son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they
went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of
Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.

11:32 And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah
died in Haran.

12:1 Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country,
and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I
will shew thee: 12:2 And I will make of thee a great nation, and I
will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a
blessing: 12:3 And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him
that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be
blessed.

12:4 So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went
with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed
out of Haran.

12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all
their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had
gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan;
and into the land of Canaan they came.

12:6 And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto
the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.

12:7 And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I
give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who
appeared unto him.

12:8 And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel,
and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east:
and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name
of the LORD.

12:9 And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.

12:10 And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into
Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.

12:11 And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt,
that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a
fair woman to look upon: 12:12 Therefore it shall come to pass, when
the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife:
and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.

12:13 Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with
me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.

12:14 And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the
Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.

12:15 The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before
Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.

12:16 And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and
oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses,
and camels.

12:17 And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues
because of Sarai Abram's wife.

12:18 And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this that thou hast
done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?  12:19
Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me to
wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.

12:20 And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him
away, and his wife, and all that he had.

13:1 And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he
had, and Lot with him, into the south.

13:2 And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.

13:3 And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto
the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and
Hai; 13:4 Unto the place of the altar, which he had make there at the
first: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.

13:5 And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and
tents.

13:6 And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell
together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell
together.

13:7 And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and
the herdmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite
dwelled then in the land.

13:8 And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee,
between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we be
brethren.

13:9 Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee,
from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right;
or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.

13:10 And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan,
that it was well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodom
and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt,
as thou comest unto Zoar.

13:11 Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot journeyed
east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.

13:12 Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the
cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.

13:13 But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORD
exceedingly.

13:14 And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from
him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art
northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward: 13:15 For all
the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for
ever.

13:16 And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a
man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be
numbered.

13:17 Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the
breadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.

13:18 Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of
Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.

14:1 And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar,
Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of
nations; 14:2 That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with
Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of
Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.

14:3 All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is
the salt sea.

14:4 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year
they rebelled.

14:5 And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that
were with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the
Zuzims in Ham, and the Emins in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 14:6 And the
Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.

14:7 And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, and
smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that
dwelt in Hazezontamar.

14:8 And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah,
and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela
(the same is Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of
Siddim; 14:9 With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king
of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar;
four kings with five.

14:10 And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings of
Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled
to the mountain.

14:11 And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their
victuals, and went their way.

14:12 And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom,
and his goods, and departed.

14:13 And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew;
for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and
brother of Aner: and these were confederate with Abram.

14:14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he
armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and
eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.

14:15 And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by
night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the
left hand of Damascus.

14:16 And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his
brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.

14:17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from
the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, at
the valley of Shaveh, which is the king's dale.

14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and
he was the priest of the most high God.

14:19 And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most high
God, possessor of heaven and earth: 14:20 And blessed be the most high
God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him
tithes of all.

14:21 And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and
take the goods to thyself.

14:22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lift up mine hand
unto the LORD, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth,
14:23 That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, and
that I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say,
I have made Abram rich: 14:24 Save only that which the young men have
eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol,
and Mamre; let them take their portion.

15:1 After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a
vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceeding
great reward.

15:2 And Abram said, LORD God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go
childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
15:3 And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo,
one born in my house is mine heir.

15:4 And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, This
shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own
bowels shall be thine heir.

15:5 And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward
heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he
said unto him, So shall thy seed be.

15:6 And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for
righteousness.

15:7 And he said unto him, I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur
of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.

15:8 And he said, LORD God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit
it?  15:9 And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old,
and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a
turtledove, and a young pigeon.

15:10 And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst,
and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.

15:11 And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them
away.

15:12 And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram;
and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.

15:13 And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be
a stranger in a land that is not their's, and shall serve them; and
they shall afflict them four hundred years; 15:14 And also that
nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they
come out with great substance.

15:15 And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried
in a good old age.

15:16 But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for
the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.

15:17 And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was
dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between
those pieces.

15:18 In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying,
Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the
great river, the river Euphrates: 15:19 The Kenites, and the
Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites, 15:20 And the Hittites, and the
Perizzites, and the Rephaims, 15:21 And the Amorites, and the
Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.

16:1 Now Sarai Abram's wife bare him no children: and she had an
handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.

16:2 And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD hath restrained
me from bearing: I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I may
obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.

16:3 And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after
Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her
husband Abram to be his wife.

16:4 And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw
that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.

16:5 And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given my
maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was
despised in her eyes: the LORD judge between me and thee.

16:6 But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thine hand; do
to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she
fled from her face.

16:7 And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the
wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.

16:8 And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence camest thou? and whither
wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.

16:9 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress,
and submit thyself under her hands.

16:10 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multiply thy
seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.

16:11 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Behold, thou art with
child and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael; because
the LORD hath heard thy affliction.

16:12 And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man,
and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence
of all his brethren.

16:13 And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, Thou
God seest me: for she said, Have I also here looked after him that
seeth me?  16:14 Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold,
it is between Kadesh and Bered.

16:15 And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son's name,
which Hagar bare, Ishmael.

16:16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare
Ishmael to Abram.

17:1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appeared
to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me,
and be thou perfect.

17:2 And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will
multiply thee exceedingly.

17:3 And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying, 17:4
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a
father of many nations.

17:5 Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name
shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.

17:6 And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations
of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.

17:7 And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed
after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a
God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.

17:8 And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land
wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an
everlasting possession; and I will be their God.

17:9 And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore,
thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.

17:10 This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and
thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.

17:11 And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall
be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.

17:12 And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you,
every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or
bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.

17:13 He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy
money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your
flesh for an everlasting covenant.

17:14 And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is
not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath
broken my covenant.

17:15 And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not
call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.

17:16 And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I
will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people
shall be of her.

17:17 Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his
heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old?
and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?  17:18 And Abraham
said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee!  17:19 And God
said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call
his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an
everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.

17:20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed
him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly;
twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.

17:21 But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall
bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.

17:22 And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.

17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his
house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the
men of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in
the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.

17:24 And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his
son.

17:27 And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with
money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.

18:1 And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat
in the tent door in the heat of the day; 18:2 And he lift up his eyes
and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he
ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the
ground, 18:3 And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thy
sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 18:4 Let a little
water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves
under the tree: 18:5 And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort
ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come
to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.

18:6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make
ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes
upon the hearth.

18:7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good,
and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.

18:8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed,
and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they
did eat.

18:9 And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said,
Behold, in the tent.

18:10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the
time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah
heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.

18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it
ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.

18:12 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed
old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?  18:13 And the LORD
said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a
surety bear a child, which am old?  18:14 Is any thing too hard for
the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to
the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.

18:15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid.
And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.

18:16 And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and
Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

18:17 And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I
do; 18:18 Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty
nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
18:19 For I know him, that he will command his children and his
household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do
justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which
he hath spoken of him.

18:20 And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is
great, and because their sin is very grievous; 18:21 I will go down
now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of
it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.

18:22 And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward
Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.

18:23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the
righteous with the wicked?  18:24 Peradventure there be fifty
righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the
place for the fifty righteous that are therein?  18:25 That be far
from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the
wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far
from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?  18:26 And
the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city,
then I will spare all the place for their sakes.

18:27 And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me
to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes: 18:28
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou
destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there
forty and five, I will not destroy it.

18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there
shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's
sake.

18:30 And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will
speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I
will not do it, if I find thirty there.

18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the
LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for twenty's sake.

18:32 And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet
but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for ten's sake.

18:33 And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with
Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.

19:1 And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the
gate of Sodom: and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them; and he bowed
himself with his face toward the ground; 19:2 And he said, Behold now,
my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry
all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on
your ways. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street all
night.

19:3 And he pressed upon them greatly; and they turned in unto him,
and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake
unleavened bread, and they did eat.

19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of
Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people
from every quarter: 19:5 And they called unto Lot, and said unto him,
Where are the men which came in to thee this night? bring them out
unto us, that we may know them.

19:6 And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after
him, 19:7 And said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly.

19:8 Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man; let
me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good
in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing; for therefore came they
under the shadow of my roof.

19:9 And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow
came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal
worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man,
even Lot, and came near to break the door.

19:10 But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house
to them, and shut to the door.

19:11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with
blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to
find the door.

19:12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son in
law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the
city, bring them out of this place: 19:13 For we will destroy this
place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the
LORD; and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it.

19:14 And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which married
his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORD
will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons
in law.

19:15 And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot,
saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here;
lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.

19:16 And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon
the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORD
being merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him
without the city.

19:17 And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad,
that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay
thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.

19:18 And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my LORD: 19:19 Behold now,
thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy
mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life; and I cannot
escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die: 19:20
Behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one:
Oh, let me escape thither, (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall
live.

19:21 And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this
thing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thou
hast spoken.

19:22 Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thou
be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.

19:23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.

19:24 Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and
fire from the LORD out of heaven; 19:25 And he overthrew those cities,
and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that
which grew upon the ground.

19:26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a
pillar of salt.

19:27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he
stood before the LORD: 19:28 And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah,
and toward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke
of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.

19:29 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain,
that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the
overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt.

19:30 And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his
two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt
in a cave, he and his two daughters.

19:31 And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father is old, and
there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of
all the earth: 19:32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we
will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.

19:33 And they made their father drink wine that night: and the
firstborn went in, and lay with her father; and he perceived not when
she lay down, nor when she arose.

19:34 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto
the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make him
drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that we
may preserve seed of our father.

19:35 And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the
younger arose, and lay with him; and he perceived not when she lay
down, nor when she arose.

19:36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.

19:37 And the first born bare a son, and called his name Moab: the
same is the father of the Moabites unto this day.

19:38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name
Benammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this
day.

20:1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and
dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.

20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and
Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.

20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him,
Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken;
for she is a man's wife.

20:4 But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thou
slay also a righteous nation?  20:5 Said he not unto me, She is my
sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the
integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.

20:6 And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst
this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from
sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.

20:7 Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and
he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her
not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are
thine.

20:8 Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his
servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were
sore afraid.

20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou
done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on
me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that
ought not to be done.

20:10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou
hast done this thing?  20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought,
Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for
my wife's sake.

20:12 And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my
father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.

20:13 And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my
father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou
shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me,
He is my brother.

20:14 And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and
womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his
wife.

20:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where
it pleaseth thee.

20:16 And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a
thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the
eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was
reproved.

20:17 So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his
wife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.

20:18 For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of
Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.

21:1 And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto
Sarah as he had spoken.

21:2 For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at
the set time of which God had spoken to him.

21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him,
whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.

21:4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as
God had commanded him.

21:5 And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born
unto him.

21:6 And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear
will laugh with me.

21:7 And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should
have given children suck? for I have born him a son in his old age.

21:8 And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great
feast the same day that Isaac was weaned.

21:9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born
unto Abraham, mocking.

21:10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her
son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even
with Isaac.

21:11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of
his son.

21:12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight
because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah
hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy
seed be called.

21:13 And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation,
because he is thy seed.

21:14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a
bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder,
and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in
the wilderness of Beersheba.

21:15 And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child
under one of the shrubs.

21:16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off,
as it were a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the
child. And she sat over against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.

21:17 And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called
to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar?
fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.

21:18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will
make him a great nation.

21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she
went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.

21:20 And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the
wilderness, and became an archer.

21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him
a wife out of the land of Egypt.

21:22 And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the
chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee
in all that thou doest: 21:23 Now therefore swear unto me here by God
that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my
son's son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee,
thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.

21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear.

21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which
Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.

21:26 And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing; neither
didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to day.

21:27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech;
and both of them made a covenant.

21:28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.

21:29 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs
which thou hast set by themselves?  21:30 And he said, For these seven
ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto
me, that I have digged this well.

21:31 Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they
sware both of them.

21:32 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up,
and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the
land of the Philistines.

21:33 And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on
the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.

21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.

22:1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt
Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.

22:2 And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou
lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for
a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.

22:3 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass,
and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave
the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place
of which God had told him.

22:4 Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the
place afar off.

22:5 And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass;
and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.

22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon
Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they
went both of them together.

22:7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and
he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood:
but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?  22:8 And Abraham said, My
son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they
went both of them together.

22:9 And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham
built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his
son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.

22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay
his son.

22:11 And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and
said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.

22:12 And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou
any thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou
hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me.

22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind
him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took
the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his
son.

22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is
said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.

22:15 And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the
second time, 22:16 And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD,
for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son,
thine only son: 22:17 That in blessing I will bless thee, and in
multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and
as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess
the gate of his enemies; 22:18 And in thy seed shall all the nations
of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.

22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and
went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.

22:20 And it came to pass after these things, that it was told
Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy
brother Nahor; 22:21 Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and
Kemuel the father of Aram, 22:22 And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash,
and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.

22:23 And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor,
Abraham's brother.

22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah,
and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.

23:1 And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these
were the years of the life of Sarah.

23:2 And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.

23:3 And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the
sons of Heth, saying, 23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you:
give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my
dead out of my sight.

23:5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:6
Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of
our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his
sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.

23:7 And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the
land, even to the children of Heth.

23:8 And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I
should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to
Ephron the son of Zohar, 23:9 That he may give me the cave of
Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as
much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a
buryingplace amongst you.

23:10 And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the
Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even
of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying, 23:11 Nay, my
lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I
give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee:
bury thy dead.

23:12 And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.

23:13 And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the
land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I will
give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead
there.

23:14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:15 My lord,
hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver;
what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.

23:16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron
the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth,
four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.

23:17 And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which was before
Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees
that were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, were
made sure 23:18 Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the
children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.

23:19 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the
field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan.

23:20 And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto
Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.

24:1 And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had
blessed Abraham in all things.

24:2 And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled
over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh: 24:3
And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the God
of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the
daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell: 24:4 But thou shalt
go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son
Isaac.

24:5 And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be
willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again
unto the land from whence thou camest?  24:6 And Abraham said unto
him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.

24:7 The LORD God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and
from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware
unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall send
his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from
thence.

24:8 And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou
shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.

24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his
master, and sware to him concerning that matter.

24:10 And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and
departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and he
arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.

24:11 And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well
of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out
to draw water.

24:12 And he said O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send
me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham.

24:13 Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of
the men of the city come out to draw water: 24:14 And let it come to
pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I
pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give
thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed
for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed
kindness unto my master.

24:15 And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold,
Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of
Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.

24:16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had
any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her
pitcher, and came up.

24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee,
drink a little water of thy pitcher.

24:18 And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her
pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.

24:19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw
water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.

24:20 And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran
again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.

24:21 And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the
LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.

24:22 And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the
man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets
for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold; 24:23 And said, Whose
daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father's
house for us to lodge in?  24:24 And she said unto him, I am the
daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.

24:25 She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender
enough, and room to lodge in.

24:26 And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.

24:27 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who
hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being
in the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's brethren.

24:28 And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother's house these
things.

24:29 And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran
out unto the man, unto the well.

24:30 And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon
his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister,
saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and,
behold, he stood by the camels at the well.

24:31 And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore
standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the
camels.

24:32 And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and
gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet,
and the men's feet that were with him.

24:33 And there was set meat before him to eat: but he said, I will
not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.

24:34 And he said, I am Abraham's servant.

24:35 And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become
great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold,
and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.

24:36 And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master when she was
old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.

24:37 And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife
to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:
24:38 But thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my kindred, and
take a wife unto my son.

24:39 And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not
follow me.

24:40 And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I walk, will send his
angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for
my son of my kindred, and of my father's house: 24:41 Then shalt thou
be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if
they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath.

24:42 And I came this day unto the well, and said, O LORD God of my
master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go: 24:43
Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that
when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me,
I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink; 24:44 And she say
to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the
same be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master's
son.

24:45 And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah
came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto
the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I pray
thee.

24:46 And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder,
and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank,
and she made the camels drink also.

24:47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she
said, the daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him:
and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her hands.

24:48 And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the LORD, and blessed
the LORD God of my master Abraham, which had led me in the right way
to take my master's brother's daughter unto his son.

24:49 And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell
me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the
left.

24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth
from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.

24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be
thy master's son's wife, as the LORD hath spoken.

24:52 And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant heard their
words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth.

24:53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of
gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her
brother and to her mother precious things.

24:54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him,
and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said,
Send me away unto my master.

24:55 And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with
us a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.

24:56 And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath
prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.

24:57 And they said, We will call the damsel, and enquire at her
mouth.

24:58 And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with
this man? And she said, I will go.

24:59 And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and
Abraham's servant, and his men.

24:60 And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our
sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed
possess the gate of those which hate them.

24:61 And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the
camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went
his way.

24:62 And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt
in the south country.

24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and
he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.

24:64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she
lighted off the camel.

24:65 For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh
in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master:
therefore she took a vail, and covered herself.

24:66 And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.

24:67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took
Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was
comforted after his mother's death.

25:1 Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.

25:2 And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and
Ishbak, and Shuah.

25:3 And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were
Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.

25:4 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah,
and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.

25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.

25:6 But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham
gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived,
eastward, unto the east country.

25:7 And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he
lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.

25:8 Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an
old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.

25:9 And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of
Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which
is before Mamre; 25:10 The field which Abraham purchased of the sons
of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.

25:11 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed
his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.

25:12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom
Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham: 25:13 And
these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according
to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar,
and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 25:14 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 25:15
Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: 25:16 These are the sons
of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their
castles; twelve princes according to their nations.

25:17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and
thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was
gathered unto his people.

25:18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as
thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all his
brethren.

25:19 And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham
begat Isaac: 25:20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah
to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister
to Laban the Syrian.

25:21 And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was
barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife
conceived.

25:22 And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If
it be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD.

25:23 And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two
manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one
people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall
serve the younger.

25:24 And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there
were twins in her womb.

25:25 And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and
they called his name Esau.

25:26 And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on
Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore
years old when she bare them.

25:27 And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the
field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.

25:28 And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but
Rebekah loved Jacob.

25:29 And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was
faint: 25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that
same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.

25:31 And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.

25:32 And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit
shall this birthright do to me?  25:33 And Jacob said, Swear to me
this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto
Jacob.

25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did
eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his
birthright.

26:1 And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that
was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the
Philistines unto Gerar.

26:2 And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt;
dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of: 26:3 Sojourn in this
land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and
unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the
oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father; 26:4 And I will make thy
seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed
all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the
earth be blessed; 26:5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept
my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.

26:6 And Isaac dwelt in Gerar: 26:7 And the men of the place asked him
of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She
is my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for
Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon.

26:8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that
Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw,
and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.

26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is
thy wife; and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto
him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.

26:10 And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of
the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest
have brought guiltiness upon us.

26:11 And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth
this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.

26:12 Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an
hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.

26:13 And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he
became very great: 26:14 For he had possession of flocks, and
possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines
envied him.

26:15 For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the
days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and
filled them with earth.

26:16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much
mightier than we.

26:17 And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of
Gerar, and dwelt there.

26:18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged
in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped
them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the
names by which his father had called them.

26:19 And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a
well of springing water.

26:20 And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen,
saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek;
because they strove with him.

26:21 And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he
called the name of it Sitnah.

26:22 And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for
that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he
said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful
in the land.

26:23 And he went up from thence to Beersheba.

26:24 And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am
the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will
bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake.

26:25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the
LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a
well.

26:26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his
friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.

26:27 And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye
hate me, and have sent me away from you?  26:28 And they said, We saw
certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now
an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a
covenant with thee; 26:29 That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not
touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have
sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD.

26:30 And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.

26:31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to
another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in
peace.

26:32 And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came,
and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto
him, We have found water.

26:33 And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is
Beersheba unto this day.

26:34 And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the
daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the
Hittite: 26:35 Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.

27:1 And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were
dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said
unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I.

27:2 And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my
death: 27:3 Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver
and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison; 27:4
And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I
may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.

27:5 And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went
to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.

27:6 And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy
father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying, 27:7 Bring me venison, and
make me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD
before my death.

27:8 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I
command thee.

27:9 Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of
the goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such as
he loveth: 27:10 And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may
eat, and that he may bless thee before his death.

27:11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is
a hairy man, and I am a smooth man: 27:12 My father peradventure will
feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a
curse upon me, and not a blessing.

27:13 And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only
obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

27:14 And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and
his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved.

27:15 And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which
were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:
27:16 And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands,
and upon the smooth of his neck: 27:17 And she gave the savoury meat
and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.

27:18 And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said,
Here am I; who art thou, my son?  27:19 And Jacob said unto his
father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badest
me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may
bless me.

27:20 And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it
so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought it
to me.

27:21 And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may
feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.

27:22 And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and
said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.

27:23 And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his
brother Esau's hands: so he blessed him.

27:24 And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.

27:25 And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's
venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him,
and he did eat: and he brought him wine and he drank.

27:26 And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me,
my son.

27:27 And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of
his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as
the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed: 27:28 Therefore God
give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and
plenty of corn and wine: 27:29 Let people serve thee, and nations bow
down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow
down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he
that blesseth thee.

27:30 And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of
blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of
Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.

27:31 And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his
father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his
son's venison, that thy soul may bless me.

27:32 And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I
am thy son, thy firstborn Esau.

27:33 And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who? where is he
that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all
before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and he shall be
blessed.

27:34 And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a
great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me,
even me also, O my father.

27:35 And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away
thy blessing.

27:36 And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hath
supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and,
behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not
reserved a blessing for me?  27:37 And Isaac answered and said unto
Esau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I
given to him for servants; and with corn and wine have I sustained
him: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son?  27:38 And Esau said
unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, even
me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

27:39 And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy
dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven
from above; 27:40 And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve
thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the
dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.

27:41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his
father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning
for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.

27:42 And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and
she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold,
thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to
kill thee.

27:43 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee thou to Laban
my brother to Haran; 27:44 And tarry with him a few days, until thy
brother's fury turn away; 27:45 Until thy brother's anger turn away
from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I will
send, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be deprived also of you
both in one day?  27:46 And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my
life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the
daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the
land, what good shall my life do me?  28:1 And Isaac called Jacob, and
blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a
wife of the daughters of Canaan.

28:2 Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother's
father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughers of Laban thy
mother's brother.

28:3 And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply
thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people; 28:4 And give thee
the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou
mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave
unto Abraham.

28:5 And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban,
son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's
mother.

28:6 When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to
Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him
he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the
daughers of Canaan; 28:7 And that Jacob obeyed his father and his
mother, and was gone to Padanaram; 28:8 And Esau seeing that the
daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father; 28:9 Then went Esau
unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the
daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his
wife.

28:10 And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.

28:11 And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all
night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that
place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to
sleep.

28:12 And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the
top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending
and descending on it.

28:13 And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LORD
God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou
liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed; 28:14 And thy seed
shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the
west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee
and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.

28:15 And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places
whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I
will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to
thee of.

28:16 And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD
is in this place; and I knew it not.

28:17 And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is
none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.

28:18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that
he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil
upon the top of it.

28:19 And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of
that city was called Luz at the first.

28:20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will
keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and
raiment to put on, 28:21 So that I come again to my father's house in
peace; then shall the LORD be my God: 28:22 And this stone, which I
have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou
shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.

29:1 Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the
people of the east.

29:2 And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there
were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they
watered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well's mouth.

29:3 And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the
stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone
again upon the well's mouth in his place.

29:4 And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they
said, Of Haran are we.

29:5 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And they
said, We know him.

29:6 And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well:
and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.

29:7 And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the
cattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go and
feed them.

29:8 And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered
together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then we
water the sheep.

29:9 And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father's
sheep; for she kept them.

29:10 And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban
his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother,
that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and
watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.

29:11 And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.

29:12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that
he was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father.

29:13 And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his
sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed
him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.

29:14 And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And
he abode with him the space of a month.

29:15 And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother,
shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy
wages be?  29:16 And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder
was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.

29:17 Leah was tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well
favoured.

29:18 And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years
for Rachel thy younger daughter.

29:19 And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that
I should give her to another man: abide with me.

29:20 And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto
him but a few days, for the love he had to her.

29:21 And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are
fulfilled, that I may go in unto her.

29:22 And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a
feast.

29:23 And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his
daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.

29:24 And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an
handmaid.

29:25 And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah:
and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I
serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me?
29:26 And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give
the younger before the firstborn.

29:27 Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service
which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years.

29:28 And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel
his daughter to wife also.

29:29 And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be
her maid.

29:30 And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more
than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.

29:31 And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb:
but Rachel was barren.

29:32 And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name
Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction;
now therefore my husband will love me.

29:33 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because the
LORD hath heard I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also:
and she called his name Simeon.

29:34 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this time
will my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons:
therefore was his name called Levi.

29:35 And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will
I praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and left
bearing.

30:1 And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel
envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I
die.

30:2 And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I
in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb?
30:3 And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she
shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.

30:4 And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in
unto her.

30:5 And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.

30:6 And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my
voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan.

30:7 And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second
son.

30:8 And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my
sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali.

30:9 When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her
maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.

30:10 And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son.

30:11 And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad.

30:12 And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son.

30:13 And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me
blessed: and she called his name Asher.

30:14 And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found
mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then
Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes.

30:15 And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken
my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? And
Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's
mandrakes.

30:16 And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went
out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I
have hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her that
night.

30:17 And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob
the fifth son.

30:18 And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given
my maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar.

30:19 And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.

30:20 And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my
husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she
called his name Zebulun.

30:21 And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.

30:22 And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened
her womb.

30:23 And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away
my reproach: 30:24 And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD
shall add to me another son.

30:25 And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob
said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and
to my country.

30:26 Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee,
and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.

30:27 And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in
thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath
blessed me for thy sake.

30:28 And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it.

30:29 And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and
how thy cattle was with me.

30:30 For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now
increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my
coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also?  30:31
And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not
give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again
feed and keep thy flock.

30:32 I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence
all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among
the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such
shall be my hire.

30:33 So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it
shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled
and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be
counted stolen with me.

30:34 And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy
word.

30:35 And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and
spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and
every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the
sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.

30:36 And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and
Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks.

30:37 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and
chesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white
appear which was in the rods.

30:38 And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the
gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that
they should conceive when they came to drink.

30:39 And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth
cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.

30:40 And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the
flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of
Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto
Laban's cattle.

30:41 And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did
conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in
the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.

30:42 But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the
feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.

30:43 And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and
maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.

31:1 And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken
away all that was our father's; and of that which was our father's
hath he gotten all this glory.

31:2 And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was
not toward him as before.

31:3 And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy
fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.

31:4 And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his
flock, 31:5 And said unto them, I see your father's countenance, that
it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with
me.

31:6 And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.

31:7 And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times;
but God suffered him not to hurt me.

31:8 If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the
cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be
thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.

31:9 Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given
them to me.

31:10 And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that
I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which
leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.

31:11 And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob:
And I said, Here am I.

31:12 And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which
leap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I
have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.

31:13 I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and
where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this
land, and return unto the land of thy kindred.

31:14 And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any
portion or inheritance for us in our father's house?  31:15 Are we not
counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured
also our money.

31:16 For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is
ours, and our children's: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto
thee, do.

31:17 Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;
31:18 And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he
had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in
Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.

31:19 And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the
images that were her father's.

31:20 And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he
told him not that he fled.

31:21 So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over
the river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead.

31:22 And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.

31:23 And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven
days' journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.

31:24 And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said
unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:25 Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the
mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.

31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast
stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives
taken with the sword?  31:27 Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly,
and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent
thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp?
31:28 And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thou
hast now done foolishly in so doing.

31:29 It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of
your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that
thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:30 And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore
longedst after thy father's house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my
gods?  31:31 And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was
afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy
daughters from me.

31:32 With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before
our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee.
For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.

31:33 And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into
the two maidservants' tents; but he found them not. Then went he out
of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent.

31:34 Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel's
furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but
found them not.

31:35 And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I
cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And he
searched but found not the images.

31:36 And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered
and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hast
so hotly pursued after me?  31:37 Whereas thou hast searched all my
stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set it here
before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us
both.

31:38 This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she
goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not
eaten.

31:39 That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I bare
the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by
day, or stolen by night.

31:40 Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by
night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.

31:41 Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee
fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle:
and thou hast changed my wages ten times.

31:42 Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of
Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. God
hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked thee
yesternight.

31:43 And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my
daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are my
cattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day
unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born?
31:44 Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; and
let it be for a witness between me and thee.

31:45 And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.

31:46 And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took
stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.

31:47 And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.

31:48 And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this
day.

Therefore was the name of it called Galeed; 31:49 And Mizpah; for he
said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one from
another.

31:50 If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other
wives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is witness
betwixt me and thee.

31:51 And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold this
pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee: 31:52 This heap be
witness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over this
heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this
pillar unto me, for harm.

31:53 The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their
father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his father
Isaac.

31:54 Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his
brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night
in the mount.

31:55 And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and
his daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed, and returned unto
his place.

32:1 And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.

32:2 And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he
called the name of that place Mahanaim.

32:3 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the
land of Seir, the country of Edom.

32:4 And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord
Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and
stayed there until now: 32:5 And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and
menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that
I may find grace in thy sight.

32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy
brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men
with him.

32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the
people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels,
into two bands; 32:8 And said, If Esau come to the one company, and
smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.

32:9 And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father
Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to
thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee: 32:10 I am not worthy of
the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast
shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan;
and now I am become two bands.

32:11 Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the
hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the
mother with the children.

32:12 And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed
as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.

32:13 And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came
to his hand a present for Esau his brother; 32:14 Two hundred she
goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams, 32:15
Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls,
twenty she asses, and ten foals.

32:16 And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove
by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and
put a space betwixt drove and drove.

32:17 And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother
meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither
goest thou? and whose are these before thee?  32:18 Then thou shalt
say, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord
Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.

32:19 And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that
followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau,
when ye find him.

32:20 And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For
he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and
afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.

32:21 So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that
night in the company.

32:22 And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two
womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.

32:23 And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over
that he had.

32:24 And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him
until the breaking of the day.

32:25 And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched
the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of
joint, as he wrestled with him.

32:26 And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I
will not let thee go, except thou bless me.

32:27 And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.

32:28 And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel:
for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast
prevailed.

32:29 And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name.
And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he
blessed him there.

32:30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen
God face to face, and my life is preserved.

32:31 And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he
halted upon his thigh.

32:32 Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which
shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because
he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.

33:1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came,
and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah,
and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.

33:2 And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah
and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.

33:3 And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground
seven times, until he came near to his brother.

33:4 And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck,
and kissed him: and they wept.

33:5 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children;
and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God
hath graciously given thy servant.

33:6 Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they
bowed themselves.

33:7 And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves:
and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.

33:8 And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? And
he said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord.

33:9 And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast
unto thyself.

33:10 And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in
thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have
seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast
pleased with me.

33:11 Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because
God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he
urged him, and he took it.

33:12 And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will
go before thee.

33:13 And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are
tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men
should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.

33:14 Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I
will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and
the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir.

33:15 And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that
are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the
sight of my lord.

33:16 So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.

33:17 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made
booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called
Succoth.

33:18 And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the
land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent
before the city.

33:19 And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent,
at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundred
pieces of money.

33:20 And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael.

34:1 And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went
out to see the daughters of the land.

34:2 And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the
country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her.

34:3 And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved
the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.

34:4 And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this
damsel to wife.

34:5 And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his
sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until
they were come.

34:6 And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune
with him.

34:7 And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it:
and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had
wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter: which thing
ought not to be done.

34:8 And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem
longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife.

34:9 And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us,
and take our daughters unto you.

34:10 And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you;
dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.

34:11 And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me
find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give.

34:12 Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according
as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.

34:13 And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father
deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:
34:14 And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our
sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us:
34:15 But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be,
that every male of you be circumcised; 34:16 Then will we give our
daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will
dwell with you, and we will become one people.

34:17 But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will
we take our daughter, and we will be gone.

34:18 And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son.

34:19 And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had
delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all the
house of his father.

34:20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city,
and communed with the men of their city, saying, 34:21 These men are
peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade
therein; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let us
take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our
daughters.

34:22 Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us,
to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are
circumcised.

34:23 Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast of
their's be our's? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell
with us.

34:24 And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went
out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that
went out of the gate of his city.

34:25 And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that
two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each
man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.

34:26 And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the
sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out.

34:27 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city,
because they had defiled their sister.

34:28 They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and that
which was in the city, and that which was in the field, 34:29 And all
their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they
captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house.

34:30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make
me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites
and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gather
themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed,
I and my house.

34:31 And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?
35:1 And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there:
and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou
fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.

35:2 Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with
him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and
change your garments: 35:3 And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and
I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my
distress, and was with me in the way which I went.

35:4 And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their
hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid
them under the oak which was by Shechem.

35:5 And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities
that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of
Jacob.

35:6 So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is,
Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.

35:7 And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel:
because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his
brother.

35:8 But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath
Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.

35:9 And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram,
and blessed him.

35:10 And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be
called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his
name Israel.

35:11 And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and
multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and
kings shall come out of thy loins; 35:12 And the land which I gave
Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee
will I give the land.

35:13 And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.

35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him,
even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he
poured oil thereon.

35:15 And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him,
Bethel.

35:16 And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way
to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.

35:17 And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the
midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.

35:18 And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she
died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him
Benjamin.

35:19 And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is
Bethlehem.

35:20 And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of
Rachel's grave unto this day.

35:21 And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of
Edar.

35:22 And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben
went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it.
Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: 35:23 The sons of Leah; Reuben,
Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and
Zebulun: 35:24 The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin: 35:25 And the
sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali: 35:26 And the
sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid: Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of
Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.

35:27 And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city
of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.

35:28 And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.

35:29 And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his
people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried
him.

36:1 Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom.

36:2 Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughter
of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter
of Zibeon the Hivite; 36:3 And Bashemath Ishmael's daughter, sister of
Nebajoth.

36:4 And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel; 36:5 And
Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of
Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan.

36:6 And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all
the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all
his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into
the country from the face of his brother Jacob.

36:7 For their riches were more than that they might dwell together;
and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because
of their cattle.

36:8 Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.

36:9 And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites
in mount Seir: 36:10 These are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz the
son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of
Esau.

36:11 And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and
Kenaz.

36:12 And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare to
Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife.

36:13 And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and
Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.

36:14 And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the
daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and
Jaalam, and Korah.

36:15 These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the
firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,
36:16 Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes
that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.

36:17 And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke
Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of
Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's
wife.

36:18 And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush,
duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah
the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.

36:19 These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their
dukes.

36:20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land;
Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 36:21 And Dishon, and Ezer,
and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir
in the land of Edom.

36:22 And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's
sister was Timna.

36:23 And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and
Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.

36:24 And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this
was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the
asses of Zibeon his father.

36:25 And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the
daughter of Anah.

36:26 And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and
Ithran, and Cheran.

36:27 The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.

36:28 The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.

36:29 These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke
Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah, 36:30 Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke
Dishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes in
the land of Seir.

36:31 And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before
there reigned any king over the children of Israel.

36:32 And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his
city was Dinhabah.

36:33 And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in
his stead.

36:34 And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his
stead.

36:35 And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in
the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was
Avith.

36:36 And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.

36:37 And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in
his stead.

36:38 And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his
stead.

36:39 And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his
stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was
Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.

36:40 And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau,
according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke
Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth, 36:41 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah,
duke Pinon, 36:42 Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 36:43 Duke
Magdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to their
habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father of
the Edomites.

37:1 And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in
the land of Canaan.

37:2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years
old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the
sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and
Joseph brought unto his father their evil report.

37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he
was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours.

37:4 And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than
all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto
him.

37:5 And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they
hated him yet the more.

37:6 And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have
dreamed: 37:7 For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and,
lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves
stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.

37:8 And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or
shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the
more for his dreams, and for his words.

37:9 And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and
said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and
the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.

37:10 And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his
father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou
hast dreamed?  Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to
bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?  37:11 And his brethren
envied him; but his father observed the saying.

37:12 And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem.

37:13 And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock
in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him,
Here am I.

37:14 And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with
thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he
sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.

37:15 And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in
the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou?  37:16
And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed
their flocks.

37:17 And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say,
Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found
them in Dothan.

37:18 And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto
them, they conspired against him to slay him.

37:19 And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.

37:20 Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some
pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall
see what will become of his dreams.

37:21 And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands;
and said, Let us not kill him.

37:22 And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this
pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might
rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.

37:23 And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren,
that they stript Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that
was on him; 37:24 And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the
pit was empty, there was no water in it.

37:25 And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes
and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead
with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry
it down to Egypt.

37:26 And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay
our brother, and conceal his blood?  37:27 Come, and let us sell him
to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our
brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.

37:28 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and
lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites
for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.

37:29 And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in
the pit; and he rent his clothes.

37:30 And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not;
and I, whither shall I go?  37:31 And they took Joseph's coat, and
killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood; 37:32 And
they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their
father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son's
coat or no.

37:33 And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat; an evil beast
hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.

37:34 And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins,
and mourned for his son many days.

37:35 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him;
but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into
the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.

37:36 And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer
of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard.

38:1 And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his
brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.

38:2 And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name
was Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her.

38:3 And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er.

38:4 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name
Onan.

38:5 And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name
Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.

38:6 And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar.

38:7 And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD;
and the LORD slew him.

38:8 And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's wife, and
marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.

38:9 And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to
pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled it on
the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.

38:10 And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he
slew him also.

38:11 Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at
thy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest
peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went and
dwelt in her father's house.

38:12 And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah's wife died;
and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to
Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.

38:13 And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up
to Timnath to shear his sheep.

38:14 And she put her widow's garments off from her, and covered her
with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is
by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was
not given unto him to wife.

38:15 When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because she
had covered her face.

38:16 And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee,
let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daughter
in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come
in unto me?  38:17 And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock.
And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it?  38:18
And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet,
and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he gave it
her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.

38:19 And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and
put on the garments of her widowhood.

38:20 And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite,
to receive his pledge from the woman's hand: but he found her not.

38:21 Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the
harlot, that was openly by the way side? And they said, There was no
harlot in this place.

38:22 And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also
the men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.

38:23 And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed:
behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.

38:24 And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told
Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and
also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her
forth, and let her be burnt.

38:25 When she was brought forth, she sent to her father in law,
saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said,
Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and
staff.

38:26 And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more
righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he
knew her again no more.

38:27 And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold,
twins were in her womb.

38:28 And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out
his hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet
thread, saying, This came out first.

38:29 And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his
brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? this
breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.

38:30 And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread
upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.

39:1 And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of
Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of
the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.

39:2 And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he
was in the house of his master the Egyptian.

39:3 And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORD
made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

39:4 And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he
made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his
hand.

39:5 And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer
in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the
Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD was
upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.

39:6 And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he knew not
ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly
person, and well favoured.

39:7 And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wife
cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.

39:8 But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my
master wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed
all that he hath to my hand; 39:9 There is none greater in this house
than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because
thou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin
against God?  39:10 And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by
day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.

39:11 And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the
house to do his business; and there was none of the men of the house
there within.

39:12 And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he
left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.

39:13 And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment
in her hand, and was fled forth, 39:14 That she called unto the men of
her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an
Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I
cried with a loud voice: 39:15 And it came to pass, when he heard that
I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and
fled, and got him out.

39:16 And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.

39:17 And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The
Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to
mock me: 39:18 And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried,
that he left his garment with me, and fled out.

39:19 And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his
wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy
servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.

39:20 And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the prison, a
place where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was there in the
prison.

39:21 But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him
favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.

39:22 And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the
prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he
was the doer of it.

39:23 The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under
his hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, the
LORD made it to prosper.

40:1 And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the
king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.

40:2 And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the
chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.

40:3 And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard,
into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.

40:4 And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he
served them: and they continued a season in ward.

40:5 And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one
night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the
butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the
prison.

40:6 And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon
them, and, behold, they were sad.

40:7 And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of
his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day?  40:8 And
they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no
interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations
belong to God? tell me them, I pray you.

40:9 And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him,
In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; 40:10 And in the vine were
three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot
forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: 40:11 And
Pharaoh's cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them
into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.

40:12 And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: The
three branches are three days: 40:13 Yet within three days shall
Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou
shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner
when thou wast his butler.

40:14 But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew
kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh,
and bring me out of this house: 40:15 For indeed I was stolen away out
of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that
they should put me into the dungeon.

40:16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he
said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three
white baskets on my head: 40:17 And in the uppermost basket there was
of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out
of the basket upon my head.

40:18 And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation
thereof: The three baskets are three days: 40:19 Yet within three days
shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a
tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.

40:20 And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday,
that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head
of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.

40:21 And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and
he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand: 40:22 But he hanged the chief
baker: as Joseph had interpreted to them.

40:23 Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.

41:1 And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh
dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river.

41:2 And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured
kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.

41:3 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the
river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the other kine upon
the brink of the river.

41:4 And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven
well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.

41:5 And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears
of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.

41:6 And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind
sprung up after them.

41:7 And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears.
And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.

41:8 And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled;
and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the
wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was none
that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.

41:9 Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember
my faults this day: 41:10 Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put
me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief
baker: 41:11 And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed
each man according to the interpretation of his dream.

41:12 And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to
the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us
our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.

41:13 And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he
restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.

41:14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him
hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his
raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.

41:15 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there
is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou
canst understand a dream to interpret it.

41:16 And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shall
give Pharaoh an answer of peace.

41:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon
the bank of the river: 41:18 And, behold, there came up out of the
river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a
meadow: 41:19 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor
and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the
land of Egypt for badness: 41:20 And the lean and the ill favoured
kine did eat up the first seven fat kine: 41:21 And when they had
eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but
they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.

41:22 And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one
stalk, full and good: 41:23 And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin,
and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them: 41:24 And the
thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto the
magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me.

41:25 And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: God
hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do.

41:26 The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are
seven years: the dream is one.

41:27 And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them
are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind
shall be seven years of famine.

41:28 This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is
about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.

41:29 Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all
the land of Egypt: 41:30 And there shall arise after them seven years
of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt;
and the famine shall consume the land; 41:31 And the plenty shall not
be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall
be very grievous.

41:32 And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it is
because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it
to pass.

41:33 Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and
set him over the land of Egypt.

41:34 Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land,
and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous
years.

41:35 And let them gather all the food of those good years that come,
and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in
the cities.

41:36 And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven
years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land
perish not through the famine.

41:37 And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes
of all his servants.

41:38 And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as
this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?  41:39 And Pharaoh said
unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none
so discreet and wise as thou art: 41:40 Thou shalt be over my house,
and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the
throne will I be greater than thou.

41:41 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the
land of Egypt.

41:42 And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon
Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a
gold chain about his neck; 41:43 And he made him to ride in the second
chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he
made him ruler over all the land of Egypt.

41:44 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee
shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.

41:45 And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave
him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And
Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt.

41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh
king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and
went throughout all the land of Egypt.

41:47 And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by
handfuls.

41:48 And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were
in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of
the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same.

41:49 And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much,
until he left numbering; for it was without number.

41:50 And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine
came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto
him.

41:51 And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God,
said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father's house.

41:52 And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath
caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.

41:53 And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of
Egypt, were ended.

41:54 And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph
had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of
Egypt there was bread.

41:55 And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to
Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto
Joseph; what he saith to you, do.

41:56 And the famine was over all the face of the earth: and Joseph
opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the
famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.

41:57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn;
because that the famine was so sore in all lands.

42:1 Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto
his sons, Why do ye look one upon another?  42:2 And he said, Behold,
I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and
buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.

42:3 And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.

42:4 But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren;
for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.

42:5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came:
for the famine was in the land of Canaan.

42:6 And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that
sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph's brethren came, and
bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.

42:7 And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself
strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them,
Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.

42:8 And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.

42:9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and
said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are
come.

42:10 And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy
servants come.

42:11 We are all one man's sons; we are true men, thy servants are no
spies.

42:12 And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land
ye are come.

42:13 And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one
man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest is this day with
our father, and one is not.

42:14 And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you,
saying, Ye are spies: 42:15 Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of
Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come
hither.

42:16 Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be
kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any
truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.

42:17 And he put them all together into ward three days.

42:18 And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; for
I fear God: 42:19 If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound
in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your
houses: 42:20 But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your
words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.

42:21 And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning
our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought
us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.

42:22 And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying,
Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore,
behold, also his blood is required.

42:23 And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake unto
them by an interpreter.

42:24 And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to
them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and
bound him before their eyes.

42:25 Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to
restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision
for the way: and thus did he unto them.

42:26 And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.

42:27 And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in
the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack's mouth.

42:28 And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, it
is even in my sack: and their heart failed them, and they were afraid,
saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us?  42:29
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and
told him all that befell unto them; saying, 42:30 The man, who is the
lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the
country.

42:31 And we said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies: 42:32 We
be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest
is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.

42:33 And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall
I know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren here with me,
and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone: 42:34
And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye are
no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you your
brother, and ye shall traffick in the land.

42:35 And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold,
every man's bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and
their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.

42:36 And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my
children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin
away: all these things are against me.

42:37 And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I
bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him
to thee again.

42:38 And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother
is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in
the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave.

43:1 And the famine was sore in the land.

43:2 And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they
had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy
us a little food.

43:3 And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest
unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with
you.

43:4 If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy
thee food: 43:5 But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down:
for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your
brother be with you.

43:6 And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell
the man whether ye had yet a brother?  43:7 And they said, The man
asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is your
father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him according
to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would
say, Bring your brother down?  43:8 And Judah said unto Israel his
father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may
live, and not die, both we, and thou, and also our little ones.

43:9 I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I
bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the
blame for ever: 43:10 For except we had lingered, surely now we had
returned this second time.

43:11 And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do
this; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry
down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and
myrrh, nuts, and almonds: 43:12 And take double money in your hand;
and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry
it again in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight: 43:13 Take
also your brother, and arise, go again unto the man: 43:14 And God
Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your
other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am
bereaved.

43:15 And the men took that present, and they took double money in
their hand and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and
stood before Joseph.

43:16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of
his house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready; for these
men shall dine with me at noon.

43:17 And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men into
Joseph's house.

43:18 And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph's
house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our
sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion
against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.

43:19 And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they
communed with him at the door of the house, 43:20 And said, O sir, we
came indeed down at the first time to buy food: 43:21 And it came to
pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold,
every man's money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full
weight: and we have brought it again in our hand.

43:22 And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food:
we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks.

43:23 And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and the God of
your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money.
And he brought Simeon out unto them.

43:24 And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and gave them
water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender.

43:25 And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for
they heard that they should eat bread there.

43:26 And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which
was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the
earth.

43:27 And he asked them of their welfare, and said, Is your father
well, the old man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive?  43:28 And they
answered, Thy servant our father is in good health, he is yet alive.
And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance.

43:29 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his
mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom ye spake
unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son.

43:30 And Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his
brother: and he sought where to weep; and he entered into his chamber,
and wept there.

43:31 And he washed his face, and went out, and refrained himself, and
said, Set on bread.

43:32 And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves,
and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves: because
the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is an
abomination unto the Egyptians.

43:33 And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his
birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the men
marvelled one at another.

43:34 And he took and sent messes unto them from before him: but
Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of their's. And they
drank, and were merry with him.

44:1 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's
sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money
in his sack's mouth.

44:2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the
youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that
Joseph had spoken.

44:3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they
and their asses.

44:4 And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off,
Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou
dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for
good?  44:5 Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby
indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.

44:6 And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.

44:7 And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God
forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing: 44:8
Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought
again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal
out of thy lord's house silver or gold?  44:9 With whomsoever of thy
servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's
bondmen.

44:10 And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he
with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.

44:11 Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground,
and opened every man his sack.

44:12 And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the
youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.

44:13 Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and
returned to the city.

44:14 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; for he was
yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.

44:15 And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done?
wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine?  44:16 And Judah
said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak?  or how
shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy
servants: behold, we are my lord's servants, both we, and he also with
whom the cup is found.

44:17 And he said, God forbid that I should do so: but the man in
whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you,
get you up in peace unto your father.

44:18 Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy
servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not
thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh.

44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a
brother?  44:20 And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old
man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is
dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.

44:21 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that
I may set mine eyes upon him.

44:22 And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for
if he should leave his father, his father would die.

44:23 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother
come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.

44:24 And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father,
we told him the words of my lord.

44:25 And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food.

44:26 And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with
us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man's face, except
our youngest brother be with us.

44:27 And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife
bare me two sons: 44:28 And the one went out from me, and I said,
Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since: 44:29 And if ye
take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down
my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.

44:30 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad
be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life;
44:31 It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with
us, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs
of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.

44:32 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father,
saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to
my father for ever.

44:33 Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the
lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.

44:34 For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me?
lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.

45:1 Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood
by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there
stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his
brethren.

45:2 And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh
heard.

45:3 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father
yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they were
troubled at his presence.

45:4 And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you.
And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye
sold into Egypt.

45:5 Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye
sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.

45:6 For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet
there are five years, in the which there shall neither be earing nor
harvest.

45:7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the
earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.

45:8 So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hath
made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler
throughout all the land of Egypt.

45:9 Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith
thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me,
tarry not: 45:10 And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou
shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's
children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast: 45:11
And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine;
lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty.

45:12 And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin,
that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you.

45:13 And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all
that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither.

45:14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept; and
Benjamin wept upon his neck.

45:15 Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and
after that his brethren talked with him.

45:16 And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying,
Joseph's brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his
servants.

45:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye;
lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan; 45:18 And
take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will
give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of
the land.

45:19 Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the
land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your
father, and come.

45:20 Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land of
Egypt is your's.

45:21 And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons,
according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for
the way.

45:22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but to
Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of
raiment.

45:23 And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden
with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and
bread and meat for his father by the way.

45:24 So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said
unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.

45:25 And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan
unto Jacob their father, 45:26 And told him, saying, Joseph is yet
alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's
heart fainted, for he believed them not.

45:27 And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said
unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry
him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived: 45:28 And Israel said,
It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before
I die.

46:1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to
Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.

46:2 And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said,
Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.

46:3 And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down
into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation: 46:4 I will
go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up
again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.

46:5 And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried
Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the
wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.

46:6 And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had
gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his
seed with him: 46:7 His sons, and his sons' sons with him, his
daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he with
him into Egypt.

46:8 And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came
into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn.

46:9 And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and
Carmi.

46:10 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin,
and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.

46:11 And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

46:12 And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and
Zarah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of
Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.

46:13 And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and
Shimron.

46:14 And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.

46:15 These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in
Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his
daughters were thirty and three.

46:16 And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri,
and Arodi, and Areli.

46:17 And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah,
and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel.

46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his
daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.

46:19 The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.

46:20 And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and
Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare
unto him.

46:21 And the sons of Benjamin were Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel,
Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.

46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the
souls were fourteen.

46:23 And the sons of Dan; Hushim.

46:24 And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and
Shillem.

46:25 These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his
daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls were seven.

46:26 All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of
his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were threescore
and six; 46:27 And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt,
were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into
Egypt, were threescore and ten.

46:28 And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face
unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.

46:29 And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel
his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell on
his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.

46:30 And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen
thy face, because thou art yet alive.

46:31 And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father's house,
I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and my
father's house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come unto me;
46:32 And the men are shepherds, for their trade hath been to feed
cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all
that they have.

46:33 And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and
shall say, What is your occupation?  46:34 That ye shall say, Thy
servants' trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now,
both we, and also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of
Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.

47:1 Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my
brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have,
are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the land
of Goshen.

47:2 And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented
them unto Pharaoh.

47:3 And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? And
they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and also
our fathers.

47:4 They said morever unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we
come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the
famine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let
thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.

47:5 And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy
brethren are come unto thee: 47:6 The land of Egypt is before thee; in
the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the
land of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest any men of activity
among them, then make them rulers over my cattle.

47:7 And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before
Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.

47:8 And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou?  47:9 And Jacob
said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an
hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of
my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the
life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.

47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.

47:11 And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a
possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land
of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.

47:12 And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his
father's household, with bread, according to their families.

47:13 And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very
sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by
reason of the famine.

47:14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land
of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought:
and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.

47:15 And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of
Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread:
for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.

47:16 And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your
cattle, if money fail.

47:17 And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them
bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle
of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all
their cattle for that year.

47:18 When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year,
and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our
money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not
ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:
47:19 Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land?
buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants
unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that
the land be not desolate.

47:20 And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the
Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over
them: so the land became Pharaoh's.

47:21 And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of
the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof.

47:22 Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had
a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which
Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.

47:23 Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this
day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall
sow the land.

47:24 And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give
the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for
seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households,
and for food for your little ones.

47:25 And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in
the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants.

47:26 And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day,
that Pharaoh should have the fifth part, except the land of the
priests only, which became not Pharaoh's.

47:27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen;
and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied
exceedingly.

47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the
whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.

47:29 And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his
son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight,
put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly
with me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt: 47:30 But I will lie with
my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their
buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said.

47:31 And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel
bowed himself upon the bed's head.

48:1 And it came to pass after these things, that one told Joseph,
Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons,
Manasseh and Ephraim.

48:2 And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto
thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.

48:3 And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz
in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, 48:4 And said unto me, Behold,
I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee
a multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after thee
for an everlasting possession.

48:5 And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto
thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are
mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.

48:6 And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine,
and shall be called after the name of their brethren in their
inheritance.

48:7 And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the
land of Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to come
unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same
is Bethlehem.

48:8 And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who are these?  48:9
And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given
me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I
will bless them.

48:10 Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not
see.

And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced
them.

48:11 And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face:
and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.

48:12 And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed
himself with his face to the earth.

48:13 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward
Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's
right hand, and brought them near unto him.

48:14 And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it upon
Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's
head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the firstborn.

48:15 And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers
Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto
this day, 48:16 The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the
lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers
Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of
the earth.

48:17 And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the
head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father's hand,
to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head.

48:18 And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this is
the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.

48:19 And his father refused, and said, I know it, my son, I know it:
he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly
his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall
become a multitude of nations.

48:20 And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel
bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set
Ephraim before Manasseh.

48:21 And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall be
with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.

48:22 Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren,
which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my
bow.

49:1 And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves
together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last
days.

49:2 Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and
hearken unto Israel your father.

49:3 Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my
strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power: 49:4
Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up to
thy father's bed; then defiledst thou it: he went up to my couch.

49:5 Simeon and Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in their
habitations.

49:6 O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly,
mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man,
and in their selfwill they digged down a wall.

49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it
was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.

49:8 Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand shall
be in the neck of thine enemies; thy father's children shall bow down
before thee.

49:9 Judah is a lion's whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up:
he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall
rouse him up?  49:10 The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a
lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall
the gathering of the people be.

49:11 Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass's colt unto the
choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the
blood of grapes: 49:12 His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth
white with milk.

49:13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for
an haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.

49:14 Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two burdens:
49:15 And he saw that rest was good, and the land that it was
pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto
tribute.

49:16 Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.

49:17 Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that
biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.

49:18 I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD.

49:19 Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the
last.

49:20 Out of Asher his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal
dainties.

49:21 Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.

49:22 Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well;
whose branches run over the wall: 49:23 The archers have sorely
grieved him, and shot at him, and hated him: 49:24 But his bow abode
in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands
of the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of
Israel:) 49:25 Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and
by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above,
blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and
of the womb: 49:26 The blessings of thy father have prevailed above
the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the
everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the
crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.

49:27 Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf: in the morning he shall devour
the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.

49:28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that
their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to
his blessing he blessed them.

49:29 And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered
unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the
field of Ephron the Hittite, 49:30 In the cave that is in the field of
Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham
bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a
buryingplace.

49:31 There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried
Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.

49:32 The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was
from the children of Heth.

49:33 And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he
gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was
gathered unto his people.

50:1 And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and
kissed him.

50:2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his
father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.

50:3 And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the
days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him
threescore and ten days.

50:4 And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto
the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes,
speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 50:5 My father made
me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in
the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go
up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.

50:6 And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he
made thee swear.

50:7 And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all
the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders
of the land of Egypt, 50:8 And all the house of Joseph, and his
brethren, and his father's house: only their little ones, and their
flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.

50:9 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was
a very great company.

50:10 And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which is beyond
Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation:
and he made a mourning for his father seven days.

50:11 And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the
mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning
to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim,
which is beyond Jordan.

50:12 And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: 50:13
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in
the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the
field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before
Mamre.

50:14 And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all
that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his
father.

50:15 And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they
said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us
all the evil which we did unto him.

50:16 And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did
command before he died, saying, 50:17 So shall ye say unto Joseph,
Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin;
for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the
trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept
when they spake unto him.

50:18 And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and
they said, Behold, we be thy servants.

50:19 And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of
God?  50:20 But as for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meant
it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people
alive.

50:21 Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little
ones.

And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.

50:22 And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and
Joseph lived an hundred and ten years.

50:23 And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation: the
children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon
Joseph's knees.

50:24 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely
visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware
to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.

50:25 And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God
will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.

50:26 So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they
embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.




The Second Book of Moses:  Called Exodus


1:1 Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came
into Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob.

1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, 1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, and
Benjamin, 1:4 Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

1:5 And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy
souls: for Joseph was in Egypt already.

1:6 And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation.

1:7 And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased
abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land
was filled with them.

1:8 Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph.

1:9 And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of
Israel are more and mightier than we: 1:10 Come on, let us deal wisely
with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there
falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight
against us, and so get them up out of the land.

1:11 Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with
their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and
Raamses.

1:12 But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and
grew.

And they were grieved because of the children of Israel.

1:13 And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with
rigour: 1:14 And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in
morter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all
their service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigour.

1:15 And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the
name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah: 1:16 And
he said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and
see them upon the stools; if it be a son, then ye shall kill him: but
if it be a daughter, then she shall live.

1:17 But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egypt
commanded them, but saved the men children alive.

1:18 And the king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said unto
them, Why have ye done this thing, and have saved the men children
alive?  1:19 And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew
women are not as the Egyptian women; for they are lively, and are
delivered ere the midwives come in unto them.

1:20 Therefore God dealt well with the midwives: and the people
multiplied, and waxed very mighty.

1:21 And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he
made them houses.

1:22 And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is
born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save
alive.

2:1 And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took to wife a
daughter of Levi.

2:2 And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him that
he was a goodly child, she hid him three months.

2:3 And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of
bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child
therein; and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink.

2:4 And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him.

2:5 And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the
river; and her maidens walked along by the river's side; and when she
saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it.

2:6 And when she had opened it, she saw the child: and, behold, the
babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the
Hebrews' children.

2:7 Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to
thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for
thee?  2:8 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went
and called the child's mother.

2:9 And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and
nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the women took
the child, and nursed it.

2:10 And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter,
and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said,
Because I drew him out of the water.

2:11 And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he
went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he spied
an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren.

2:12 And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there
was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.

2:13 And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the
Hebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wrong,
Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow?  2:14 And he said, Who made thee a
prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou
killedst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thing
is known.

2:15 Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But
Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian:
and he sat down by a well.

2:16 Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came and
drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.

2:17 And the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood up
and helped them, and watered their flock.

2:18 And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, How is it that
ye are come so soon to day?  2:19 And they said, An Egyptian delivered
us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for
us, and watered the flock.

2:20 And he said unto his daughters, And where is he? why is it that
ye have left the man? call him, that he may eat bread.

2:21 And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses
Zipporah his daughter.

2:22 And she bare him a son, and he called his name Gershom: for he
said, I have been a stranger in a strange land.

2:23 And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt
died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and
they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.

2:24 And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant
with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.

2:25 And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect
unto them.

3:1 Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest
of Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and
came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb.

3:2 And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a flame of fire out
of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned
with fire, and the bush was not consumed.

3:3 And Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight,
why the bush is not burnt.

3:4 And when the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto
him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said,
Here am I.

3:5 And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy
feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground.

3:6 Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham,
the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face; for he
was afraid to look upon God.

3:7 And the LORD said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people
which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their
taskmasters; for I know their sorrows; 3:8 And I am come down to
deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up
out of that land unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing
with milk and honey; unto the place of the Canaanites, and the
Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and
the Jebusites.

3:9 Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come
unto me: and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians
oppress them.

3:10 Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou
mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt.

3:11 And Moses said unto God, Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh,
and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?
3:12 And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be a
token unto thee, that I have sent thee: When thou hast brought forth
the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain.

3:13 And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of
Israel, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me
unto you; and they shall say to me, What is his name? what shall I say
unto them?  3:14 And God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said,
Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me
unto you.

3:15 And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the
children of Israel, the LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham,
the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is
my name for ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations.

3:16 Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say unto them,
The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of
Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you, and seen
that which is done to you in Egypt: 3:17 And I have said, I will bring
you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanites,
and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the
Hivites, and the Jebusites, unto a land flowing with milk and honey.

3:18 And they shall hearken to thy voice: and thou shalt come, thou
and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say
unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath met with us: and now let us
go, we beseech thee, three days' journey into the wilderness, that we
may sacrifice to the LORD our God.

3:19 And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, not
by a mighty hand.

3:20 And I will stretch out my hand, and smite Egypt with all my
wonders which I will do in the midst thereof: and after that he will
let you go.

3:21 And I will give this people favour in the sight of the Egyptians:
and it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty.

3:22 But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour, and of her that
sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and
raiment: and ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon your
daughters; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians.

4:1 And Moses answered and said, But, behold, they will not believe
me, nor hearken unto my voice: for they will say, The LORD hath not
appeared unto thee.

4:2 And the LORD said unto him, What is that in thine hand? And he
said, A rod.

4:3 And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground,
and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it.

4:4 And the LORD said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it by
the tail. And he put forth his hand, and caught it, and it became a
rod in his hand: 4:5 That they may believe that the LORD God of their
fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,
hath appeared unto thee.

4:6 And the LORD said furthermore unto him, Put now thine hand into
thy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom: and when he took it
out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow.

4:7 And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his
hand into his bosom again; and plucked it out of his bosom, and,
behold, it was turned again as his other flesh.

4:8 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither
hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the
voice of the latter sign.

4:9 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe also these two
signs, neither hearken unto thy voice, that thou shalt take of the
water of the river, and pour it upon the dry land: and the water which
thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land.

4:10 And Moses said unto the LORD, O my LORD, I am not eloquent,
neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I
am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.

4:11 And the LORD said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? or who
maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I the
LORD?  4:12 Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach
thee what thou shalt say.

4:13 And he said, O my LORD, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him
whom thou wilt send.

4:14 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses, and he said,
Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well.
And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee: and when he seeth
thee, he will be glad in his heart.

4:15 And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth: and I
will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye
shall do.

4:16 And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people: and he shall be,
even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him
instead of God.

4:17 And thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, wherewith thou shalt
do signs.

4:18 And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father in law, and said
unto him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return unto my brethren which
are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to
Moses, Go in peace.

4:19 And the LORD said unto Moses in Midian, Go, return into Egypt:
for all the men are dead which sought thy life.

4:20 And Moses took his wife and his sons, and set them upon an ass,
and he returned to the land of Egypt: and Moses took the rod of God in
his hand.

4:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, When thou goest to return into
Egypt, see that thou do all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I have
put in thine hand: but I will harden his heart, that he shall not let
the people go.

4:22 And thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, Thus saith the LORD, Israel is
my son, even my firstborn: 4:23 And I say unto thee, Let my son go,
that he may serve me: and if thou refuse to let him go, behold, I will
slay thy son, even thy firstborn.

4:24 And it came to pass by the way in the inn, that the LORD met him,
and sought to kill him.

4:25 Then Zipporah took a sharp stone, and cut off the foreskin of her
son, and cast it at his feet, and said, Surely a bloody husband art
thou to me.

4:26 So he let him go: then she said, A bloody husband thou art,
because of the circumcision.

4:27 And the LORD said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses.
And he went, and met him in the mount of God, and kissed him.

4:28 And Moses told Aaron all the words of the LORD who had sent him,
and all the signs which he had commanded him.

4:29 And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of
the children of Israel: 4:30 And Aaron spake all the words which the
LORD had spoken unto Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the
people.

4:31 And the people believed: and when they heard that the LORD had
visited the children of Israel, and that he had looked upon their
affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshipped.

5:1 And afterward Moses and Aaron went in, and told Pharaoh, Thus
saith the LORD God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may hold a
feast unto me in the wilderness.

5:2 And Pharaoh said, Who is the LORD, that I should obey his voice to
let Israel go? I know not the LORD, neither will I let Israel go.

5:3 And they said, The God of the Hebrews hath met with us: let us go,
we pray thee, three days' journey into the desert, and sacrifice unto
the LORD our God; lest he fall upon us with pestilence, or with the
sword.

5:4 And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore do ye, Moses and
Aaron, let the people from their works? get you unto your burdens.

5:5 And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land now are many, and
ye make them rest from their burdens.

5:6 And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmasters of the people,
and their officers, saying, 5:7 Ye shall no more give the people straw
to make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw for
themselves.

5:8 And the tale of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, ye
shall lay upon them; ye shall not diminish ought thereof: for they be
idle; therefore they cry, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God.

5:9 Let there more work be laid upon the men, that they may labour
therein; and let them not regard vain words.

5:10 And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers,
and they spake to the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will not
give you straw.

5:11 Go ye, get you straw where ye can find it: yet not ought of your
work shall be diminished.

5:12 So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of
Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw.

5:13 And the taskmasters hasted them, saying, Fulfil your works, your
daily tasks, as when there was straw.

5:14 And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaoh's
taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded, Wherefore
have ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and to
day, as heretofore?  5:15 Then the officers of the children of Israel
came and cried unto Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest thou thus with
thy servants?  5:16 There is no straw given unto thy servants, and
they say to us, Make brick: and, behold, thy servants are beaten; but
the fault is in thine own people.

5:17 But he said, Ye are idle, ye are idle: therefore ye say, Let us
go and do sacrifice to the LORD.

5:18 Go therefore now, and work; for there shall no straw be given
you, yet shall ye deliver the tale of bricks.

5:19 And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they were
in evil case, after it was said, Ye shall not minish ought from your
bricks of your daily task.

5:20 And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came
forth from Pharaoh: 5:21 And they said unto them, The LORD look upon
you, and judge; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in the
eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in
their hand to slay us.

5:22 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, LORD, wherefore hast
thou so evil entreated this people? why is it that thou hast sent me?
5:23 For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath done
evil to this people; neither hast thou delivered thy people at all.

6:1 Then the LORD said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do
to Pharaoh: for with a strong hand shall he let them go, and with a
strong hand shall he drive them out of his land.

6:2 And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I am the LORD: 6:3
And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by the name
of God Almighty, but by my name JEHOVAH was I not known to them.

6:4 And I have also established my covenant with them, to give them
the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were
strangers.

6:5 And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom
the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant.

6:6 Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the LORD, and I
will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will
rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched
out arm, and with great judgments: 6:7 And I will take you to me for a
people, and I will be to you a God: and ye shall know that I am the
LORD your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the
Egyptians.

6:8 And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning the which I did
swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give
it you for an heritage: I am the LORD.

6:9 And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened
not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.

6:10 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:11 Go in, speak unto
Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of
his land.

6:12 And Moses spake before the LORD, saying, Behold, the children of
Israel have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who
am of uncircumcised lips?  6:13 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto
Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto
Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land
of Egypt.

6:14 These be the heads of their fathers' houses: The sons of Reuben
the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: these
be the families of Reuben.

6:15 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin,
and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these are the
families of Simeon.

6:16 And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their
generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of the
life of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years.

6:17 The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their
families.

6:18 And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel:
and the years of the life of Kohath were an hundred thirty and three
years.

6:19 And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these are the families
of Levi according to their generations.

6:20 And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife; and she
bare him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were an
hundred and thirty and seven years.

6:21 And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.

6:22 And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.

6:23 And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of
Naashon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and
Ithamar.

6:24 And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these
are the families of the Korhites.

6:25 And Eleazar Aaron's son took him one of the daughters of Putiel
to wife; and she bare him Phinehas: these are the heads of the fathers
of the Levites according to their families.

6:26 These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, Bring out
the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their
armies.

6:27 These are they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out
the children of Israel from Egypt: these are that Moses and Aaron.

6:28 And it came to pass on the day when the LORD spake unto Moses in
the land of Egypt, 6:29 That the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, I am
the LORD: speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say unto
thee.

6:30 And Moses said before the LORD, Behold, I am of uncircumcised
lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?  7:1 And the LORD said
unto Moses, See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh: and Aaron thy
brother shall be thy prophet.

7:2 Thou shalt speak all that I command thee: and Aaron thy brother
shall speak unto Pharaoh, that he send the children of Israel out of
his land.

7:3 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and multiply my signs and my
wonders in the land of Egypt.

7:4 But Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you, that I may lay my hand
upon Egypt, and bring forth mine armies, and my people the children of
Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments.

7:5 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I stretch
forth mine hand upon Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel from
among them.

7:6 And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded them, so did they.

7:7 And Moses was fourscore years old, and Aaron fourscore and three
years old, when they spake unto Pharaoh.

7:8 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 7:9 When
Pharaoh shall speak unto you, saying, Shew a miracle for you: then
thou shalt say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and cast it before Pharaoh,
and it shall become a serpent.

7:10 And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and they did so as the
LORD had commanded: and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh, and
before his servants, and it became a serpent.

7:11 Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers: now the
magicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with their
enchantments.

7:12 For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents:
but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods.

7:13 And he hardened Pharaoh's heart, that he hearkened not unto them;
as the LORD had said.

7:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened, he
refuseth to let the people go.

7:15 Get thee unto Pharaoh in the morning; lo, he goeth out unto the
water; and thou shalt stand by the river's brink against he come; and
the rod which was turned to a serpent shalt thou take in thine hand.

7:16 And thou shalt say unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath
sent me unto thee, saying, Let my people go, that they may serve me in
the wilderness: and, behold, hitherto thou wouldest not hear.

7:17 Thus saith the LORD, In this thou shalt know that I am the LORD:
behold, I will smite with the rod that is in mine hand upon the waters
which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.

7:18 And the fish that is in the river shall die, and the river shall
stink; and the Egyptians shall lothe to drink of the water of the
river.

7:19 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and
stretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams,
upon their rivers, and upon their ponds, and upon all their pools of
water, that they may become blood; and that there may be blood
throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and in
vessels of stone.

7:20 And Moses and Aaron did so, as the LORD commanded; and he lifted
up the rod, and smote the waters that were in the river, in the sight
of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that
were in the river were turned to blood.

7:21 And the fish that was in the river died; and the river stank, and
the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river; and there was
blood throughout all the land of Egypt.

7:22 And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments: and
Pharaoh's heart was hardened, neither did he hearken unto them; as the
LORD had said.

7:23 And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he set
his heart to this also.

7:24 And all the Egyptians digged round about the river for water to
drink; for they could not drink of the water of the river.

7:25 And seven days were fulfilled, after that the LORD had smitten
the river.

8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Go unto Pharaoh, and say unto him,
Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

8:2 And if thou refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite all thy
borders with frogs: 8:3 And the river shall bring forth frogs
abundantly, which shall go up and come into thine house, and into thy
bedchamber, and upon thy bed, and into the house of thy servants, and
upon thy people, and into thine ovens, and into thy kneadingtroughs:
8:4 And the frogs shall come up both on thee, and upon thy people, and
upon all thy servants.

8:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch forth thine
hand with thy rod over the streams, over the rivers, and over the
ponds, and cause frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt.

8:6 And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and the
frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.

8:7 And the magicians did so with their enchantments, and brought up
frogs upon the land of Egypt.

8:8 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Intreat the
LORD, that he may take away the frogs from me, and from my people; and
I will let the people go, that they may do sacrifice unto the LORD.

8:9 And Moses said unto Pharaoh, Glory over me: when shall I intreat
for thee, and for thy servants, and for thy people, to destroy the
frogs from thee and thy houses, that they may remain in the river
only?  8:10 And he said, To morrow. And he said, Be it according to
thy word: that thou mayest know that there is none like unto the LORD
our God.

8:11 And the frogs shall depart from thee, and from thy houses, and
from thy servants, and from thy people; they shall remain in the river
only.

8:12 And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cried unto
the LORD because of the frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh.

8:13 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and the frogs
died out of the houses, out of the villages, and out of the fields.

8:14 And they gathered them together upon heaps: and the land stank.

8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his
heart, and hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.

8:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch out thy
rod, and smite the dust of the land, that it may become lice
throughout all the land of Egypt.

8:17 And they did so; for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod,
and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man, and in
beast; all the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of
Egypt.

8:18 And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth
lice, but they could not: so there were lice upon man, and upon beast.

8:19 Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God:
and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them; as
the LORD had said.

8:20 And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and
stand before Pharaoh; lo, he cometh forth to the water; and say unto
him, Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

8:21 Else, if thou wilt not let my people go, behold, I will send
swarms of flies upon thee, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people,
and into thy houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of
swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are.

8:22 And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen, in which my
people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end thou
mayest know that I am the LORD in the midst of the earth.

8:23 And I will put a division between my people and thy people: to
morrow shall this sign be.

8:24 And the LORD did so; and there came a grievous swarm of flies
into the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants' houses, and into all
the land of Egypt: the land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of
flies.

8:25 And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, Go ye,
sacrifice to your God in the land.

8:26 And Moses said, It is not meet so to do; for we shall sacrifice
the abomination of the Egyptians to the LORD our God: lo, shall we
sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and will
they not stone us?  8:27 We will go three days' journey into the
wilderness, and sacrifice to the LORD our God, as he shall command us.

8:28 And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the
LORD your God in the wilderness; only ye shall not go very far away:
intreat for me.

8:29 And Moses said, Behold, I go out from thee, and I will intreat
the LORD that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his
servants, and from his people, to morrow: but let not Pharaoh deal
deceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to the
LORD.

8:30 And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.

8:31 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and he removed
the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his
people; there remained not one.

8:32 And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neither would
he let the people go.

9:1 Then the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, and tell him,
Thus saith the LORD God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they
may serve me.

9:2 For if thou refuse to let them go, and wilt hold them still, 9:3
Behold, the hand of the LORD is upon thy cattle which is in the field,
upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels, upon the oxen, and
upon the sheep: there shall be a very grievous murrain.

9:4 And the LORD shall sever between the cattle of Israel and the
cattle of Egypt: and there shall nothing die of all that is the
children's of Israel.

9:5 And the LORD appointed a set time, saying, To morrow the LORD
shall do this thing in the land.

9:6 And the LORD did that thing on the morrow, and all the cattle of
Egypt died: but of the cattle of the children of Israel died not one.

9:7 And Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there was not one of the cattle of
the Israelites dead. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did
not let the people go.

9:8 And the LORD said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfuls
of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward the heaven
in the sight of Pharaoh.

9:9 And it shall become small dust in all the land of Egypt, and shall
be a boil breaking forth with blains upon man, and upon beast,
throughout all the land of Egypt.

9:10 And they took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and
Moses sprinkled it up toward heaven; and it became a boil breaking
forth with blains upon man, and upon beast.

9:11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the
boils; for the boil was upon the magicians, and upon all the
Egyptians.

9:12 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not
unto them; as the LORD had spoken unto Moses.

9:13 And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and
stand before Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of the
Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

9:14 For I will at this time send all my plagues upon thine heart, and
upon thy servants, and upon thy people; that thou mayest know that
there is none like me in all the earth.

9:15 For now I will stretch out my hand, that I may smite thee and thy
people with pestilence; and thou shalt be cut off from the earth.

9:16 And in very deed for this cause have I raised thee up, for to
shew in thee my power; and that my name may be declared throughout all
the earth.

9:17 As yet exaltest thou thyself against my people, that thou wilt
not let them go?  9:18 Behold, to morrow about this time I will cause
it to rain a very grievous hail, such as hath not been in Egypt since
the foundation thereof even until now.

9:19 Send therefore now, and gather thy cattle, and all that thou hast
in the field; for upon every man and beast which shall be found in the
field, and shall not be brought home, the hail shall come down upon
them, and they shall die.

9:20 He that feared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaoh
made his servants and his cattle flee into the houses: 9:21 And he
that regarded not the word of the LORD left his servants and his
cattle in the field.

9:22 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch forth thine hand toward
heaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man, and
upon beast, and upon every herb of the field, throughout the land of
Egypt.

9:23 And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven: and the LORD
sent thunder and hail, and the fire ran along upon the ground; and the
LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt.

9:24 So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous,
such as there was none like it in all the land of Egypt since it
became a nation.

9:25 And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt all that was
in the field, both man and beast; and the hail smote every herb of the
field, and brake every tree of the field.

9:26 Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were,
was there no hail.

9:27 And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said unto
them, I have sinned this time: the LORD is righteous, and I and my
people are wicked.

9:28 Intreat the LORD (for it is enough) that there be no more mighty
thunderings and hail; and I will let you go, and ye shall stay no
longer.

9:29 And Moses said unto him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, I
will spread abroad my hands unto the LORD; and the thunder shall
cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that thou mayest know how
that the earth is the LORD's.

9:30 But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye will not yet
fear the LORD God.

9:31 And the flax and the barley was smitten: for the barley was in
the ear, and the flax was bolled.

9:32 But the wheat and the rie were not smitten: for they were not
grown up.

9:33 And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad
his hands unto the LORD: and the thunders and hail ceased, and the
rain was not poured upon the earth.

9:34 And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders
were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his
servants.

9:35 And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither would he let the
children of Israel go; as the LORD had spoken by Moses.

10:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh: for I have
hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I might shew
these my signs before him: 10:2 And that thou mayest tell in the ears
of thy son, and of thy son's son, what things I have wrought in Egypt,
and my signs which I have done among them; that ye may know how that I
am the LORD.

10:3 And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him, Thus
saith the LORD God of the Hebrews, How long wilt thou refuse to humble
thyself before me? let my people go, that they may serve me.

10:4 Else, if thou refuse to let my people go, behold, to morrow will
I bring the locusts into thy coast: 10:5 And they shall cover the face
of the earth, that one cannot be able to see the earth: and they shall
eat the residue of that which is escaped, which remaineth unto you
from the hail, and shall eat every tree which groweth for you out of
the field: 10:6 And they shall fill thy houses, and the houses of all
thy servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians; which neither thy
fathers, nor thy fathers' fathers have seen, since the day that they
were upon the earth unto this day. And he turned himself, and went out
from Pharaoh.

10:7 And Pharaoh's servants said unto him, How long shall this man be
a snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the LORD their
God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed?  10:8 And Moses and
Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh: and he said unto them, Go,
serve the LORD your God: but who are they that shall go?  10:9 And
Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons
and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go;
for we must hold a feast unto the LORD.

10:10 And he said unto them, Let the LORD be so with you, as I will
let you go, and your little ones: look to it; for evil is before you.

10:11 Not so: go now ye that are men, and serve the LORD; for that ye
did desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.

10:12 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the
land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up upon the land of
Egypt, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail hath
left.

10:13 And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and
the LORD brought an east wind upon the land all that day, and all that
night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.

10:14 And the locust went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in
all the coasts of Egypt: very grievous were they; before them there
were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.

10:15 For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land
was darkened; and they did eat every herb of the land, and all the
fruit of the trees which the hail had left: and there remained not any
green thing in the trees, or in the herbs of the field, through all
the land of Egypt.

10:16 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste; and he said, I
have sinned against the LORD your God, and against you.

10:17 Now therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and
intreat the LORD your God, that he may take away from me this death
only.

10:18 And he went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.

10:19 And the LORD turned a mighty strong west wind, which took away
the locusts, and cast them into the Red sea; there remained not one
locust in all the coasts of Egypt.

10:20 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let
the children of Israel go.

10:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand toward
heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even
darkness which may be felt.

10:22 And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was
a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days: 10:23 They saw
not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days: but
all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.

10:24 And Pharaoh called unto Moses, and said, Go ye, serve the LORD;
only let your flocks and your herds be stayed: let your little ones
also go with you.

10:25 And Moses said, Thou must give us also sacrifices and burnt
offerings, that we may sacrifice unto the LORD our God.

10:26 Our cattle also shall go with us; there shall not an hoof be
left behind; for thereof must we take to serve the LORD our God; and
we know not with what we must serve the LORD, until we come thither.

10:27 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them
go.

10:28 And Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee from me, take heed to
thyself, see my face no more; for in that day thou seest my face thou
shalt die.

10:29 And Moses said, Thou hast spoken well, I will see thy face again
no more.

11:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Yet will I bring one plague more
upon Pharaoh, and upon Egypt; afterwards he will let you go hence:
when he shall let you go, he shall surely thrust you out hence
altogether.

11:2 Speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man borrow of
his neighbour, and every woman of her neighbour, jewels of silver and
jewels of gold.

11:3 And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the
Egyptians.

Moreover the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the
sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people.

11:4 And Moses said, Thus saith the LORD, About midnight will I go out
into the midst of Egypt: 11:5 And all the firstborn in the land of
Egypt shall die, from the first born of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his
throne, even unto the firstborn of the maidservant that is behind the
mill; and all the firstborn of beasts.

11:6 And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt,
such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more.

11:7 But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move
his tongue, against man or beast: that ye may know how that the LORD
doth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel.

11:8 And all these thy servants shall come down unto me, and bow down
themselves unto me, saying, Get thee out, and all the people that
follow thee: and after that I will go out. And he went out from
Pharaoh in a great anger.

11:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you;
that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.

11:10 And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: and
the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the
children of Israel go out of his land.

12:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt
saying, 12:2 This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: it
shall be the first month of the year to you.

12:3 Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the
tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb,
according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house: 12:4 And
if the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbour
next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls;
every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb.

12:5 Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year: ye
shall take it out from the sheep, or from the goats: 12:6 And ye shall
keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month: and the whole
assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening.

12:7 And they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two side
posts and on the upper door post of the houses, wherein they shall eat
it.

12:8 And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roast with fire, and
unleavened bread; and with bitter herbs they shall eat it.

12:9 Eat not of it raw, nor sodden at all with water, but roast with
fire; his head with his legs, and with the purtenance thereof.

12:10 And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; and
that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire.

12:11 And thus shall ye eat it; with your loins girded, your shoes on
your feet, and your staff in your hand; and ye shall eat it in haste:
it is the LORD's passover.

12:12 For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and will
smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and
against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment: I am the LORD.

12:13 And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where
ye are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague
shall not be upon you to destroy you, when I smite the land of Egypt.

12:14 And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep
it a feast to the LORD throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a
feast by an ordinance for ever.

12:15 Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread; even the first day ye
shall put away leaven out of your houses: for whosoever eateth
leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul
shall be cut off from Israel.

12:16 And in the first day there shall be an holy convocation, and in
the seventh day there shall be an holy convocation to you; no manner
of work shall be done in them, save that which every man must eat,
that only may be done of you.

12:17 And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this
selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt:
therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by an
ordinance for ever.

12:18 In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even,
ye shall eat unleavened bread, until the one and twentieth day of the
month at even.

12:19 Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses: for
whosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut
off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a stranger, or born
in the land.

12:20 Ye shall eat nothing leavened; in all your habitations shall ye
eat unleavened bread.

12:21 Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said unto
them, Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families, and
kill the passover.

12:22 And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood
that is in the bason, and strike the lintel and the two side posts
with the blood that is in the bason; and none of you shall go out at
the door of his house until the morning.

12:23 For the LORD will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and when
he seeth the blood upon the lintel, and on the two side posts, the
LORD will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to
come in unto your houses to smite you.

12:24 And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to
thy sons for ever.

12:25 And it shall come to pass, when ye be come to the land which the
LORD will give you, according as he hath promised, that ye shall keep
this service.

12:26 And it shall come to pass, when your children shall say unto
you, What mean ye by this service?  12:27 That ye shall say, It is the
sacrifice of the LORD's passover, who passed over the houses of the
children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and
delivered our houses. And the people bowed the head and worshipped.

12:28 And the children of Israel went away, and did as the LORD had
commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.

12:29 And it came to pass, that at midnight the LORD smote all the
firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat
on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that was in the
dungeon; and all the firstborn of cattle.

12:30 And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and
all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt; for there was
not a house where there was not one dead.

12:31 And he called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up,
and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children of
Israel; and go, serve the LORD, as ye have said.

12:32 Also take your flocks and your herds, as ye have said, and be
gone; and bless me also.

12:33 And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, that they might
send them out of the land in haste; for they said, We be all dead men.

12:34 And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their
kneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.

12:35 And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses;
and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of
gold, and raiment: 12:36 And the LORD gave the people favour in the
sight of the Egyptians, so that they lent unto them such things as
they required. And they spoiled the Egyptians.

12:37 And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth,
about six hundred thousand on foot that were men, beside children.

12:38 And a mixed multitude went up also with them; and flocks, and
herds, even very much cattle.

12:39 And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought
forth out of Egypt, for it was not leavened; because they were thrust
out of Egypt, and could not tarry, neither had they prepared for
themselves any victual.

12:40 Now the sojourning of the children of Israel, who dwelt in
Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years.

12:41 And it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirty
years, even the selfsame day it came to pass, that all the hosts of
the LORD went out from the land of Egypt.

12:42 It is a night to be much observed unto the LORD for bringing
them out from the land of Egypt: this is that night of the LORD to be
observed of all the children of Israel in their generations.

12:43 And the LORD said unto Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of
the passover: There shall no stranger eat thereof: 12:44 But every
man's servant that is bought for money, when thou hast circumcised
him, then shall he eat thereof.

12:45 A foreigner and an hired servant shall not eat thereof.

12:46 In one house shall it be eaten; thou shalt not carry forth ought
of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ye break a bone
thereof.

12:47 All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.

12:48 And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep the
passover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised, and then let
him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in the
land: for no uncircumcised person shall eat thereof.

12:49 One law shall be to him that is homeborn, and unto the stranger
that sojourneth among you.

12:50 Thus did all the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses
and Aaron, so did they.

12:51 And it came to pass the selfsame day, that the LORD did bring
the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.

13:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 13:2 Sanctify unto me all
the firstborn, whatsoever openeth the womb among the children of
Israel, both of man and of beast: it is mine.

13:3 And Moses said unto the people, Remember this day, in which ye
came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by strength of
hand the LORD brought you out from this place: there shall no leavened
bread be eaten.

13:4 This day came ye out in the month Abib.

13:5 And it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land of
the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Hivites,
and the Jebusites, which he sware unto thy fathers to give thee, a
land flowing with milk and honey, that thou shalt keep this service in
this month.

13:6 Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, and in the seventh
day shall be a feast to the LORD.

13:7 Unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days; and there shall no
leavened bread be seen with thee, neither shall there be leaven seen
with thee in all thy quarters.

13:8 And thou shalt shew thy son in that day, saying, This is done
because of that which the LORD did unto me when I came forth out of
Egypt.

13:9 And it shall be for a sign unto thee upon thine hand, and for a
memorial between thine eyes, that the LORD's law may be in thy mouth:
for with a strong hand hath the LORD brought thee out of Egypt.

13:10 Thou shalt therefore keep this ordinance in his season from year
to year.

13:11 And it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land of
the Canaanites, as he sware unto thee and to thy fathers, and shall
give it thee, 13:12 That thou shalt set apart unto the LORD all that
openeth the matrix, and every firstling that cometh of a beast which
thou hast; the males shall be the LORD's.

13:13 And every firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb; and
if thou wilt not redeem it, then thou shalt break his neck: and all
the firstborn of man among thy children shalt thou redeem.

13:14 And it shall be when thy son asketh thee in time to come,
saying, What is this? that thou shalt say unto him, By strength of
hand the LORD brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage:
13:15 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, that
the LORD slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the
firstborn of man, and the firstborn of beast: therefore I sacrifice to
the LORD all that openeth the matrix, being males; but all the
firstborn of my children I redeem.

13:16 And it shall be for a token upon thine hand, and for frontlets
between thine eyes: for by strength of hand the LORD brought us forth
out of Egypt.

13:17 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that
God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines,
although that was near; for God said, Lest peradventure the people
repent when they see war, and they return to Egypt: 13:18 But God led
the people about, through the way of the wilderness of the Red sea:
and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt.

13:19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him: for he had straitly
sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you; and
ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you.

13:20 And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham,
in the edge of the wilderness.

13:21 And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to
lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them
light; to go by day and night: 13:22 He took not away the pillar of
the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night, from before the
people.

14:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 14:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, that they turn and encamp before Pihahiroth,
between Migdol and the sea, over against Baalzephon: before it shall
ye encamp by the sea.

14:3 For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are
entangled in the land, the wilderness hath shut them in.

14:4 And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, that he shall follow after
them; and I will be honoured upon Pharaoh, and upon all his host; that
the Egyptians may know that I am the LORD. And they did so.

14:5 And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled: and the
heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people,
and they said, Why have we done this, that we have let Israel go from
serving us?  14:6 And he made ready his chariot, and took his people
with him: 14:7 And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the
chariots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them.

14:8 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he
pursued after the children of Israel: and the children of Israel went
out with an high hand.

14:9 But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses and chariots
of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them
encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon.

14:10 And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up
their eyes, and, behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and they
were sore afraid: and the children of Israel cried out unto the LORD.

14:11 And they said unto Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt,
hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore hast thou
dealt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt?  14:12 Is not this
the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we
may serve the Egyptians? For it had been better for us to serve the
Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness.

14:13 And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and
see the salvation of the LORD, which he will shew to you to day: for
the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day, ye shall see them again no
more for ever.

14:14 The LORD shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace.

14:15 And the LORD said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me?
speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward: 14:16 But
lift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and
divide it: and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through
the midst of the sea.

14:17 And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and
they shall follow them: and I will get me honour upon Pharaoh, and
upon all his host, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen.

14:18 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I have
gotten me honour upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his
horsemen.

14:19 And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel,
removed and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went from
before their face, and stood behind them: 14:20 And it came between
the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; and it was a cloud
and darkness to them, but it gave light by night to these: so that the
one came not near the other all the night.

14:21 And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORD
caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, and
made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided.

14:22 And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon
the dry ground: and the waters were a wall unto them on their right
hand, and on their left.

14:23 And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midst
of the sea, even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.

14:24 And it came to pass, that in the morning watch the LORD looked
unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the
cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians, 14:25 And took off
their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily: so that the
Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the LORD
fighteth for them against the Egyptians.

14:26 And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the
sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their
chariots, and upon their horsemen.

14:27 And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea
returned to his strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians
fled against it; and the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of
the sea.

14:28 And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the
horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after
them; there remained not so much as one of them.

14:29 But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of
the sea; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and
on their left.

14:30 Thus the LORD saved Israel that day out of the hand of the
Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea shore.

14:31 And Israel saw that great work which the LORD did upon the
Egyptians: and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD, and
his servant Moses.

15:1 Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the
LORD, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the LORD, for he hath
triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the
sea.

15:2 The LORD is my strength and song, and he is become my salvation:
he is my God, and I will prepare him an habitation; my father's God,
and I will exalt him.

15:3 The LORD is a man of war: the LORD is his name.

15:4 Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea: his
chosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea.

15:5 The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as a
stone.

15:6 Thy right hand, O LORD, is become glorious in power: thy right
hand, O LORD, hath dashed in pieces the enemy.

15:7 And in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrown
them that rose up against thee: thou sentest forth thy wrath, which
consumed them as stubble.

15:8 And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered
together, the floods stood upright as an heap, and the depths were
congealed in the heart of the sea.

15:9 The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the
spoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, my
hand shall destroy them.

15:10 Thou didst blow with thy wind, the sea covered them: they sank
as lead in the mighty waters.

15:11 Who is like unto thee, O LORD, among the gods? who is like thee,
glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?  15:12 Thou
stretchedst out thy right hand, the earth swallowed them.

15:13 Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou hast
redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy strength unto thy holy
habitation.

15:14 The people shall hear, and be afraid: sorrow shall take hold on
the inhabitants of Palestina.

15:15 Then the dukes of Edom shall be amazed; the mighty men of Moab,
trembling shall take hold upon them; all the inhabitants of Canaan
shall melt away.

15:16 Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the greatness of thine
arm they shall be as still as a stone; till thy people pass over, O
LORD, till the people pass over, which thou hast purchased.

15:17 Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of
thine inheritance, in the place, O LORD, which thou hast made for thee
to dwell in, in the Sanctuary, O LORD, which thy hands have
established.

15:18 The LORD shall reign for ever and ever.

15:19 For the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his
horsemen into the sea, and the LORD brought again the waters of the
sea upon them; but the children of Israel went on dry land in the
midst of the sea.

15:20 And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel
in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and
with dances.

15:21 And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the LORD, for he hath
triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the
sea.

15:22 So Moses brought Israel from the Red sea, and they went out into
the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness,
and found no water.

15:23 And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the waters
of Marah, for they were bitter: therefore the name of it was called
Marah.

15:24 And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we
drink?  15:25 And he cried unto the LORD; and the LORD shewed him a
tree, which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made
sweet: there he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he
proved them, 15:26 And said, If thou wilt diligently hearken to the
voice of the LORD thy God, and wilt do that which is right in his
sight, and wilt give ear to his commandments, and keep all his
statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have
brought upon the Egyptians: for I am the LORD that healeth thee.

15:27 And they came to Elim, where were twelve wells of water, and
threescore and ten palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.

16:1 And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation
of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is
between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after
their departing out of the land of Egypt.

16:2 And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured
against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness: 16:3 And the children of
Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the
LORD in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh pots, and when we
did eat bread to the full; for ye have brought us forth into this
wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.

16:4 Then said the LORD unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from
heaven for you; and the people shall go out and gather a certain rate
every day, that I may prove them, whether they will walk in my law, or
no.

16:5 And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth day they shall
prepare that which they bring in; and it shall be twice as much as
they gather daily.

16:6 And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel, At
even, then ye shall know that the LORD hath brought you out from the
land of Egypt: 16:7 And in the morning, then ye shall see the glory of
the LORD; for that he heareth your murmurings against the LORD: and
what are we, that ye murmur against us?  16:8 And Moses said, This
shall be, when the LORD shall give you in the evening flesh to eat,
and in the morning bread to the full; for that the LORD heareth your
murmurings which ye murmur against him: and what are we? your
murmurings are not against us, but against the LORD.

16:9 And Moses spake unto Aaron, Say unto all the congregation of the
children of Israel, Come near before the LORD: for he hath heard your
murmurings.

16:10 And it came to pass, as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation
of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness,
and, behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud.

16:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 16:12 I have heard the
murmurings of the children of Israel: speak unto them, saying, At even
ye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread;
and ye shall know that I am the LORD your God.

16:13 And it came to pass, that at even the quails came up, and
covered the camp: and in the morning the dew lay round about the host.

16:14 And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of
the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar
frost on the ground.

16:15 And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to
another, It is manna: for they wist not what it was. And Moses said
unto them, This is the bread which the LORD hath given you to eat.

16:16 This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded, Gather of it
every man according to his eating, an omer for every man, according to
the number of your persons; take ye every man for them which are in
his tents.

16:17 And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some
less.

16:18 And when they did mete it with an omer, he that gathered much
had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack; they
gathered every man according to his eating.

16:19 And Moses said, Let no man leave of it till the morning.

16:20 Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto Moses; but some of them
left of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and stank: and Moses
was wroth with them.

16:21 And they gathered it every morning, every man according to his
eating: and when the sun waxed hot, it melted.

16:22 And it came to pass, that on the sixth day they gathered twice
as much bread, two omers for one man: and all the rulers of the
congregation came and told Moses.

16:23 And he said unto them, This is that which the LORD hath said, To
morrow is the rest of the holy sabbath unto the LORD: bake that which
ye will bake to day, and seethe that ye will seethe; and that which
remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning.

16:24 And they laid it up till the morning, as Moses bade: and it did
not stink, neither was there any worm therein.

16:25 And Moses said, Eat that to day; for to day is a sabbath unto
the LORD: to day ye shall not find it in the field.

16:26 Six days ye shall gather it; but on the seventh day, which is
the sabbath, in it there shall be none.

16:27 And it came to pass, that there went out some of the people on
the seventh day for to gather, and they found none.

16:28 And the LORD said unto Moses, How long refuse ye to keep my
commandments and my laws?  16:29 See, for that the LORD hath given you
the sabbath, therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two
days; abide ye every man in his place, let no man go out of his place
on the seventh day.

16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day.

16:31 And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna: and it
was like coriander seed, white; and the taste of it was like wafers
made with honey.

16:32 And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commandeth,
Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations; that they may see
the bread wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness, when I brought
you forth from the land of Egypt.

16:33 And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot, and put an omer full of
manna therein, and lay it up before the LORD, to be kept for your
generations.

16:34 As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the
Testimony, to be kept.

16:35 And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years, until they
came to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they came unto the
borders of the land of Canaan.

16:36 Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah.

17:1 And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from
the wilderness of Sin, after their journeys, according to the
commandment of the LORD, and pitched in Rephidim: and there was no
water for the people to drink.

17:2 Wherefore the people did chide with Moses, and said, Give us
water that we may drink. And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with
me? wherefore do ye tempt the LORD?  17:3 And the people thirsted
there for water; and the people murmured against Moses, and said,
Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt, to kill
us and our children and our cattle with thirst?  17:4 And Moses cried
unto the LORD, saying, What shall I do unto this people? they be
almost ready to stone me.

17:5 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go on before the people, and take
with thee of the elders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith thou smotest
the river, take in thine hand, and go.

17:6 Behold, I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb;
and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it,
that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders
of Israel.

17:7 And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, because
of the chiding of the children of Israel, and because they tempted the
LORD, saying, Is the LORD among us, or not?  17:8 Then came Amalek,
and fought with Israel in Rephidim.

17:9 And Moses said unto Joshua, Choose us out men, and go out, fight
with Amalek: to morrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the
rod of God in mine hand.

17:10 So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek:
and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.

17:11 And it came to pass, when Moses held up his hand, that Israel
prevailed: and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.

17:12 But Moses hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it
under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands,
the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his
hands were steady until the going down of the sun.

17:13 And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of
the sword.

17:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a
book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua: for I will utterly put
out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven.

17:15 And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it
Jehovahnissi: 17:16 For he said, Because the LORD hath sworn that the
LORD will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.

18:1 When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father in law, heard of
all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and that
the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt; 18:2 Then Jethro, Moses'
father in law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,
18:3 And her two sons; of which the name of the one was Gershom; for
he said, I have been an alien in a strange land: 18:4 And the name of
the other was Eliezer; for the God of my father, said he, was mine
help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh: 18:5 And Jethro,
Moses' father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into
the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God: 18:6 And he
said unto Moses, I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and thy
wife, and her two sons with her.

18:7 And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance,
and kissed him; and they asked each other of their welfare; and they
came into the tent.

18:8 And Moses told his father in law all that the LORD had done unto
Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail
that had come upon them by the way, and how the LORD delivered them.

18:9 And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done
to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.

18:10 And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, who hath delivered you out
of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hath
delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.

18:11 Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods: for in the
thing wherein they dealt proudly he was above them.

18:12 And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took a burnt offering and
sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to
eat bread with Moses' father in law before God.

18:13 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the
people: and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the
evening.

18:14 And when Moses' father in law saw all that he did to the people,
he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people? why sittest
thou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning unto
even?  18:15 And Moses said unto his father in law, Because the people
come unto me to enquire of God: 18:16 When they have a matter, they
come unto me; and I judge between one and another, and I do make them
know the statutes of God, and his laws.

18:17 And Moses' father in law said unto him, The thing that thou
doest is not good.

18:18 Thou wilt surely wear away, both thou, and this people that is
with thee: for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art not able to
perform it thyself alone.

18:19 Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and God
shall be with thee: Be thou for the people to God-ward, that thou
mayest bring the causes unto God: 18:20 And thou shalt teach them
ordinances and laws, and shalt shew them the way wherein they must
walk, and the work that they must do.

18:21 Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such
as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over
them, to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of
fifties, and rulers of tens: 18:22 And let them judge the people at
all seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bring
unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge: so shall it be
easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee.

18:23 If thou shalt do this thing, and God command thee so, then thou
shalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to their
place in peace.

18:24 So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law, and did
all that he had said.

18:25 And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads
over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of
fifties, and rulers of tens.

18:26 And they judged the people at all seasons: the hard causes they
brought unto Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.

18:27 And Moses let his father in law depart; and he went his way into
his own land.

19:1 In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth
out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness
of Sinai.

19:2 For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the desert
of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness; and there Israel camped
before the mount.

19:3 And Moses went up unto God, and the LORD called unto him out of
the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and
tell the children of Israel; 19:4 Ye have seen what I did unto the
Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto
myself.

19:5 Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my
covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all
people: for all the earth is mine: 19:6 And ye shall be unto me a
kingdom of priests, and an holy nation.

These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of
Israel.

19:7 And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid
before their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him.

19:8 And all the people answered together, and said, All that the LORD
hath spoken we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people
unto the LORD.

19:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick
cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee, and believe
thee for ever.

And Moses told the words of the people unto the LORD.

19:10 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go unto the people, and sanctify
them to day and to morrow, and let them wash their clothes, 19:11 And
be ready against the third day: for the third day the LORD will come
down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai.

19:12 And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about, saying,
Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up into the mount, or touch
the border of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to
death: 19:13 There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surely be
stoned, or shot through; whether it be beast or man, it shall not
live: when the trumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount.

19:14 And Moses went down from the mount unto the people, and
sanctified the people; and they washed their clothes.

19:15 And he said unto the people, Be ready against the third day:
come not at your wives.

19:16 And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there
were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and
the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that
was in the camp trembled.

19:17 And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with
God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount.

19:18 And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORD
descended upon it in fire: and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke
of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly.

19:19 And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder
and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice.

19:20 And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of the
mount: and the LORD called Moses up to the top of the mount; and Moses
went up.

19:21 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest
they break through unto the LORD to gaze, and many of them perish.

19:22 And let the priests also, which come near to the LORD, sanctify
themselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them.

19:23 And Moses said unto the LORD, The people cannot come up to mount
Sinai: for thou chargedst us, saying, Set bounds about the mount, and
sanctify it.

19:24 And the LORD said unto him, Away, get thee down, and thou shalt
come up, thou, and Aaron with thee: but let not the priests and the
people break through to come up unto the LORD, lest he break forth
upon them.

19:25 So Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them.

20:1 And God spake all these words, saying, 20:2 I am the LORD thy
God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the
house of bondage.

20:3 Thou shalt have no other gods before me.

20:4 Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness
of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath,
or that is in the water under the earth.

20:5 Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I
the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the
fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them
that hate me; 20:6 And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love
me, and keep my commandments.

20:7 Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the
LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.

20:8 Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.

20:9 Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: 20:10 But the
seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not
do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor
thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy
gates: 20:11 For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea,
and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the
LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.

20:12 Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon
the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

20:13 Thou shalt not kill.

20:14 Thou shalt not commit adultery.

20:15 Thou shalt not steal.

20:16 Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.

20:17 Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet
thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his
ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's.

20:18 And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and
the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the
people saw it, they removed, and stood afar off.

20:19 And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear:
but let not God speak with us, lest we die.

20:20 And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to
prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sin
not.

20:21 And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the
thick darkness where God was.

20:22 And the LORD said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the
children of Israel, Ye have seen that I have talked with you from
heaven.

20:23 Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make
unto you gods of gold.

20:24 An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice
thereon thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, and
thine oxen: in all places where I record my name I will come unto
thee, and I will bless thee.

20:25 And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build
it of hewn stone: for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast
polluted it.

20:26 Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy
nakedness be not discovered thereon.

21:1 Now these are the judgments which thou shalt set before them.

21:2 If thou buy an Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in
the seventh he shall go out free for nothing.

21:3 If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he were
married, then his wife shall go out with him.

21:4 If his master have given him a wife, and she have born him sons
or daughters; the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he
shall go out by himself.

21:5 And if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife,
and my children; I will not go out free: 21:6 Then his master shall
bring him unto the judges; he shall also bring him to the door, or
unto the door post; and his master shall bore his ear through with an
aul; and he shall serve him for ever.

21:7 And if a man sell his daughter to be a maidservant, she shall not
go out as the menservants do.

21:8 If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself,
then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a strange nation
he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her.

21:9 And if he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with her
after the manner of daughters.

21:10 If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty
of marriage, shall he not diminish.

21:11 And if he do not these three unto her, then shall she go out
free without money.

21:12 He that smiteth a man, so that he die, shall be surely put to
death.

21:13 And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand;
then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee.

21:14 But if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbour, to slay him
with guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.

21:15 And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely
put to death.

21:16 And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found
in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.

21:17 And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely be
put to death.

21:18 And if men strive together, and one smite another with a stone,
or with his fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed: 21:19 If he
rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote
him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall
cause him to be thoroughly healed.

21:20 And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he
die under his hand; he shall be surely punished.

21:21 Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be
punished: for he is his money.

21:22 If men strive, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit
depart from her, and yet no mischief follow: he shall be surely
punished, according as the woman's husband will lay upon him; and he
shall pay as the judges determine.

21:23 And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life,
21:24 Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
21:25 Burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.

21:26 And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his
maid, that it perish; he shall let him go free for his eye's sake.

21:27 And if he smite out his manservant's tooth, or his maidservant's
tooth; he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake.

21:28 If an ox gore a man or a woman, that they die: then the ox shall
be surely stoned, and his flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of
the ox shall be quit.

21:29 But if the ox were wont to push with his horn in time past, and
it hath been testified to his owner, and he hath not kept him in, but
that he hath killed a man or a woman; the ox shall be stoned, and his
owner also shall be put to death.

21:30 If there be laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give for
the ransom of his life whatsoever is laid upon him.

21:31 Whether he have gored a son, or have gored a daughter, according
to this judgment shall it be done unto him.

21:32 If the ox shall push a manservant or a maidservant; he shall
give unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be
stoned.

21:33 And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit, and
not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein; 21:34 The owner of the
pit shall make it good, and give money unto the owner of them; and the
dead beast shall be his.

21:35 And if one man's ox hurt another's, that he die; then they shall
sell the live ox, and divide the money of it; and the dead ox also
they shall divide.

21:36 Or if it be known that the ox hath used to push in time past,
and his owner hath not kept him in; he shall surely pay ox for ox; and
the dead shall be his own.

22:1 If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it;
he shall restore five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.

22:2 If a thief be found breaking up, and be smitten that he die,
there shall no blood be shed for him.

22:3 If the sun be risen upon him, there shall be blood shed for him;
for he should make full restitution; if he have nothing, then he shall
be sold for his theft.

22:4 If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, whether it be
ox, or ass, or sheep; he shall restore double.

22:5 If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall
put in his beast, and shall feed in another man's field; of the best
of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make
restitution.

22:6 If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks of
corn, or the standing corn, or the field, be consumed therewith; he
that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.

22:7 If a man shall deliver unto his neighbour money or stuff to keep,
and it be stolen out of the man's house; if the thief be found, let
him pay double.

22:8 If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall be
brought unto the judges, to see whether he have put his hand unto his
neighbour's goods.

22:9 For all manner of trespass, whether it be for ox, for ass, for
sheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing which another
challengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the
judges; and whom the judges shall condemn, he shall pay double unto
his neighbour.

22:10 If a man deliver unto his neighbour an ass, or an ox, or a
sheep, or any beast, to keep; and it die, or be hurt, or driven away,
no man seeing it: 22:11 Then shall an oath of the LORD be between them
both, that he hath not put his hand unto his neighbour's goods; and
the owner of it shall accept thereof, and he shall not make it good.

22:12 And if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto the
owner thereof.

22:13 If it be torn in pieces, then let him bring it for witness, and
he shall not make good that which was torn.

22:14 And if a man borrow ought of his neighbour, and it be hurt, or
die, the owner thereof being not with it, he shall surely make it
good.

22:15 But if the owner thereof be with it, he shall not make it good:
if it be an hired thing, it came for his hire.

22:16 And if a man entice a maid that is not betrothed, and lie with
her, he shall surely endow her to be his wife.

22:17 If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall pay
money according to the dowry of virgins.

22:18 Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.

22:19 Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.

22:20 He that sacrificeth unto any god, save unto the LORD only, he
shall be utterly destroyed.

22:21 Thou shalt neither vex a stranger, nor oppress him: for ye were
strangers in the land of Egypt.

22:22 Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.

22:23 If thou afflict them in any wise, and they cry at all unto me, I
will surely hear their cry; 22:24 And my wrath shall wax hot, and I
will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your
children fatherless.

22:25 If thou lend money to any of my people that is poor by thee,
thou shalt not be to him as an usurer, neither shalt thou lay upon him
usury.

22:26 If thou at all take thy neighbour's raiment to pledge, thou
shalt deliver it unto him by that the sun goeth down: 22:27 For that
is his covering only, it is his raiment for his skin: wherein shall he
sleep? and it shall come to pass, when he crieth unto me, that I will
hear; for I am gracious.

22:28 Thou shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the ruler of thy
people.

22:29 Thou shalt not delay to offer the first of thy ripe fruits, and
of thy liquors: the firstborn of thy sons shalt thou give unto me.

22:30 Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, and with thy sheep:
seven days it shall be with his dam; on the eighth day thou shalt give
it me.

22:31 And ye shall be holy men unto me: neither shall ye eat any flesh
that is torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.

23:1 Thou shalt not raise a false report: put not thine hand with the
wicked to be an unrighteous witness.

23:2 Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shalt thou
speak in a cause to decline after many to wrest judgment: 23:3 Neither
shalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause.

23:4 If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt
surely bring it back to him again.

23:5 If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his
burden, and wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with
him.

23:6 Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause.

23:7 Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous
slay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked.

23:8 And thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and
perverteth the words of the righteous.

23:9 Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger: for ye know the heart of
a stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.

23:10 And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and shalt gather in the
fruits thereof: 23:11 But the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and
lie still; that the poor of thy people may eat: and what they leave
the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with
thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard.

23:12 Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou
shalt rest: that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thy
handmaid, and the stranger, may be refreshed.

23:13 And in all things that I have said unto you be circumspect: and
make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out
of thy mouth.

23:14 Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year.

23:15 Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread: (thou shalt eat
unleavened bread seven days, as I commanded thee, in the time
appointed of the month Abib; for in it thou camest out from Egypt: and
none shall appear before me empty:) 23:16 And the feast of harvest,
the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: and
the feast of ingathering, which is in the end of the year, when thou
hast gathered in thy labours out of the field.

23:17 Three items in the year all thy males shall appear before the
LORD God.

23:18 Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened
bread; neither shall the fat of my sacrifice remain until the morning.

23:19 The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring into
the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his
mother's milk.

23:20 Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way,
and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared.

23:21 Beware of him, and obey his voice, provoke him not; for he will
not pardon your transgressions: for my name is in him.

23:22 But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I
speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary
unto thine adversaries.

23:23 For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the
Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites,
the Hivites, and the Jebusites: and I will cut them off.

23:24 Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do
after their works: but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and quite
break down their images.

23:25 And ye shall serve the LORD your God, and he shall bless thy
bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of
thee.

23:26 There shall nothing cast their young, nor be barren, in thy
land: the number of thy days I will fulfil.

23:27 I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people
to whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their
backs unto thee.

23:28 And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the
Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee.

23:29 I will not drive them out from before thee in one year; lest the
land become desolate, and the beast of the field multiply against
thee.

23:30 By little and little I will drive them out from before thee,
until thou be increased, and inherit the land.

23:31 And I will set thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea of
the Philistines, and from the desert unto the river: for I will
deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand; and thou shalt
drive them out before thee.

23:32 Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.

23:33 They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin
against me: for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snare
unto thee.

24:1 And he said unto Moses, Come up unto the LORD, thou, and Aaron,
Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship ye
afar off.

24:2 And Moses alone shall come near the LORD: but they shall not come
nigh; neither shall the people go up with him.

24:3 And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD, and
all the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice, and
said, All the words which the LORD hath said will we do.

24:4 And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up early in
the morning, and builded an altar under the hill, and twelve pillars,
according to the twelve tribes of Israel.

24:5 And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered
burnt offerings, and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen unto the LORD.

24:6 And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basons; and half
of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.

24:7 And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of
the people: and they said, All that the LORD hath said will we do, and
be obedient.

24:8 And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and
said, Behold the blood of the covenant, which the LORD hath made with
you concerning all these words.

24:9 Then went up Moses, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of
the elders of Israel: 24:10 And they saw the God of Israel: and there
was under his feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone, and as
it were the body of heaven in his clearness.

24:11 And upon the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not his
hand: also they saw God, and did eat and drink.

24:12 And the LORD said unto Moses, Come up to me into the mount, and
be there: and I will give thee tables of stone, and a law, and
commandments which I have written; that thou mayest teach them.

24:13 And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua: and Moses went up
into the mount of God.

24:14 And he said unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us, until we come
again unto you: and, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you: if any man
have any matters to do, let him come unto them.

24:15 And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the mount.

24:16 And the glory of the LORD abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud
covered it six days: and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of
the midst of the cloud.

24:17 And the sight of the glory of the LORD was like devouring fire
on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel.

24:18 And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and gat him up into
the mount: and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights.

25:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 25:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, that they bring me an offering: of every man that
giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offering.

25:3 And this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold, and
silver, and brass, 25:4 And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine
linen, and goats' hair, 25:5 And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers'
skins, and shittim wood, 25:6 Oil for the light, spices for anointing
oil, and for sweet incense, 25:7 Onyx stones, and stones to be set in
the ephod, and in the breastplate.

25:8 And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them.

25:9 According to all that I shew thee, after the pattern of the
tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so
shall ye make it.

25:10 And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a
half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth
thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.

25:11 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without
shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round
about.

25:12 And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in
the four corners thereof; and two rings shall be in the one side of
it, and two rings in the other side of it.

25:13 And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold.

25:14 And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the
ark, that the ark may be borne with them.

25:15 The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be
taken from it.

25:16 And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give
thee.

25:17 And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a
half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth
thereof.

25:18 And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work shalt
thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat.

25:19 And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the
other end: even of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubims on the
two ends thereof.

25:20 And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high,
covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces shall look
one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubims
be.

25:21 And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark; and in the
ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee.

25:22 And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee
from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubims which are
upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in
commandment unto the children of Israel.

25:23 Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood: two cubits shall
be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit
and a half the height thereof.

25:24 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a
crown of gold round about.

25:25 And thou shalt make unto it a border of an hand breadth round
about, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round
about.

25:26 And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings
in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof.

25:27 Over against the border shall the rings be for places of the
staves to bear the table.

25:28 And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold, that the table may be borne with them.

25:29 And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, and
covers thereof, and bowls thereof, to cover withal: of pure gold shalt
thou make them.

25:30 And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me alway.

25:31 And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work
shall the candlestick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bowls,
his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same.

25:32 And six branches shall come out of the sides of it; three
branches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches of
the candlestick out of the other side: 25:33 Three bowls made like
unto almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch; and three bowls
made like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower: so in
the six branches that come out of the candlestick.

25:34 And in the candlesticks shall be four bowls made like unto
almonds, with their knops and their flowers.

25:35 And there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and a
knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of
the same, according to the six branches that proceed out of the
candlestick.

25:36 Their knops and their branches shall be of the same: all it
shall be one beaten work of pure gold.

25:37 And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof: and they shall
light the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it.

25:38 And the tongs thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of
pure gold.

25:39 Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all these
vessels.

25:40 And look that thou make them after their pattern, which was
shewed thee in the mount.

26:1 Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine
twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of
cunning work shalt thou make them.

26:2 The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and
the breadth of one curtain four cubits: and every one of the curtains
shall have one measure.

26:3 The five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and
other five curtains shall be coupled one to another.

26:4 And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the one
curtain from the selvedge in the coupling; and likewise shalt thou
make in the uttermost edge of another curtain, in the coupling of the
second.

26:5 Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops
shalt thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of
the second; that the loops may take hold one of another.

26:6 And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold, and couple the curtains
together with the taches: and it shall be one tabernacle.

26:7 And thou shalt make curtains of goats' hair to be a covering upon
the tabernacle: eleven curtains shalt thou make.

26:8 The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth
of one curtain four cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all of
one measure.

26:9 And thou shalt couple five curtains by themselves, and six
curtains by themselves, and shalt double the sixth curtain in the
forefront of the tabernacle.

26:10 And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain
that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops in the edge of the
curtain which coupleth the second.

26:11 And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and put the taches
into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.

26:12 And the remnant that remaineth of the curtains of the tent, the
half curtain that remaineth, shall hang over the backside of the
tabernacle.

26:13 And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side of
that which remaineth in the length of the curtains of the tent, it
shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that
side, to cover it.

26:14 And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed
red, and a covering above of badgers' skins.

26:15 And thou shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood
standing up.

26:16 Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and a
half shall be the breadth of one board.

26:17 Two tenons shall there be in one board, set in order one against
another: thus shalt thou make for all the boards of the tabernacle.

26:18 And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards
on the south side southward.

26:19 And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver under the twenty
boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two
sockets under another board for his two tenons.

26:20 And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north side
there shall be twenty boards: 26:21 And their forty sockets of silver;
two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.

26:22 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward thou shalt make six
boards.

26:23 And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the tabernacle
in the two sides.

26:24 And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall be
coupled together above the head of it unto one ring: thus shall it be
for them both; they shall be for the two corners.

26:25 And they shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver,
sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under
another board.

26:26 And thou shalt make bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of
the one side of the tabernacle, 26:27 And five bars for the boards of
the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the
side of the tabernacle, for the two sides westward.

26:28 And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from
end to end.

26:29 And thou shalt overlay the boards with gold, and make their
rings of gold for places for the bars: and thou shalt overlay the bars
with gold.

26:30 And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle according to the fashion
thereof which was shewed thee in the mount.

26:31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and
fine twined linen of cunning work: with cherubims shall it be made:
26:32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood
overlaid with gold: their hooks shall be of gold, upon the four
sockets of silver.

26:33 And thou shalt hang up the vail under the taches, that thou
mayest bring in thither within the vail the ark of the testimony: and
the vail shall divide unto you between the holy place and the most
holy.

26:34 And thou shalt put the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimony
in the most holy place.

26:35 And thou shalt set the table without the vail, and the
candlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacle
toward the south: and thou shalt put the table on the north side.

26:36 And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent, of
blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with
needlework.

26:37 And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim
wood, and overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold:
and thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them.

27:1 And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits long,
and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height
thereof shall be three cubits.

27:2 And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners
thereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it
with brass.

27:3 And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his
shovels, and his basons, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the
vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass.

27:4 And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of brass; and upon
the net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners thereof.

27:5 And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath,
that the net may be even to the midst of the altar.

27:6 And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood,
and overlay them with brass.

27:7 And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall
be upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it.

27:8 Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was shewed thee in
the mount, so shall they make it.

27:9 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south
side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined
linen of an hundred cubits long for one side: 27:10 And the twenty
pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass; the hooks
of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.

27:11 And likewise for the north side in length there shall be
hangings of an hundred cubits long, and his twenty pillars and their
twenty sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of
silver.

27:12 And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be
hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.

27:13 And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be
fifty cubits.

27:14 The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits:
their pillars three, and their sockets three.

27:15 And on the other side shall be hangings fifteen cubits: their
pillars three, and their sockets three.

27:16 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty
cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen,
wrought with needlework: and their pillars shall be four, and their
sockets four.

27:17 All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with
silver; their hooks shall be of silver, and their sockets of brass.

27:18 The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits, and the
breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits of fine twined
linen, and their sockets of brass.

27:19 All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof,
and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of
brass.

27:20 And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring
thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn
always.

27:21 In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, which is
before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening
to morning before the LORD: it shall be a statute for ever unto their
generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.

28:1 And take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him,
from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the
priest's office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar,
Aaron's sons.

28:2 And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for glory
and for beauty.

28:3 And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted, whom I have
filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron's garments
to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's
office.

28:4 And these are the garments which they shall make; a breastplate,
and an ephod, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle:
and they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons,
that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.

28:5 And they shall take gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and
fine linen.

28:6 And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and of purple, of
scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cunning work.

28:7 It shall have the two shoulderpieces thereof joined at the two
edges thereof; and so it shall be joined together.

28:8 And the curious girdle of the ephod, which is upon it, shall be
of the same, according to the work thereof; even of gold, of blue, and
purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

28:9 And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names
of the children of Israel: 28:10 Six of their names on one stone, and
the other six names of the rest on the other stone, according to their
birth.

28:11 With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a
signet, shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of the
children of Israel: thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of gold.

28:12 And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of the
ephod for stones of memorial unto the children of Israel: and Aaron
shall bear their names before the LORD upon his two shoulders for a
memorial.

28:13 And thou shalt make ouches of gold; 28:14 And two chains of pure
gold at the ends; of wreathen work shalt thou make them, and fasten
the wreathen chains to the ouches.

28:15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning
work; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it; of gold, of
blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twined linen, shalt
thou make it.

28:16 Foursquare it shall be being doubled; a span shall be the length
thereof, and a span shall be the breadth thereof.

28:17 And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of
stones: the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle:
this shall be the first row.

28:18 And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a
diamond.

28:19 And the third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.

28:20 And the fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper: they
shall be set in gold in their inclosings.

28:21 And the stones shall be with the names of the children of
Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a
signet; every one with his name shall they be according to the twelve
tribes.

28:22 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends of
wreathen work of pure gold.

28:23 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and
shalt put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.

28:24 And thou shalt put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two
rings which are on the ends of the breastplate.

28:25 And the other two ends of the two wreathen chains thou shalt
fasten in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the
ephod before it.

28:26 And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and thou shalt put them
upon the two ends of the breastplate in the border thereof, which is
in the side of the ephod inward.

28:27 And two other rings of gold thou shalt make, and shalt put them
on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart thereof,
over against the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of
the ephod.

28:28 And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof unto
the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be above the
curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosed
from the ephod.

28:29 And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the
breastplate of judgment upon his heart, when he goeth in unto the holy
place, for a memorial before the LORD continually.

28:30 And thou shalt put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and
the Thummim; and they shall be upon Aaron's heart, when he goeth in
before the LORD: and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of
Israel upon his heart before the LORD continually.

28:31 And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod all of blue.

28:32 And there shall be an hole in the top of it, in the midst
thereof: it shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of
it, as it were the hole of an habergeon, that it be not rent.

28:33 And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of
blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, round about the hem thereof; and
bells of gold between them round about: 28:34 A golden bell and a
pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem of the robe
round about.

28:35 And it shall be upon Aaron to minister: and his sound shall be
heard when he goeth in unto the holy place before the LORD, and when
he cometh out, that he die not.

28:36 And thou shalt make a plate of pure gold, and grave upon it,
like the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.

28:37 And thou shalt put it on a blue lace, that it may be upon the
mitre; upon the forefront of the mitre it shall be.

28:38 And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, that Aaron may bear the
iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel shall hallow
in all their holy gifts; and it shall be always upon his forehead,
that they may be accepted before the LORD.

28:39 And thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen, and thou shalt
make the mitre of fine linen, and thou shalt make the girdle of
needlework.

28:40 And for Aaron's sons thou shalt make coats, and thou shalt make
for them girdles, and bonnets shalt thou make for them, for glory and
for beauty.

28:41 And thou shalt put them upon Aaron thy brother, and his sons
with him; and shalt anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify
them, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.

28:42 And thou shalt make them linen breeches to cover their
nakedness; from the loins even unto the thighs they shall reach: 28:43
And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they come in
unto the tabernacle of the congregation, or when they come near unto
the altar to minister in the holy place; that they bear not iniquity,
and die: it shall be a statute for ever unto him and his seed after
him.

29:1 And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow
them, to minister unto me in the priest's office: Take one young
bullock, and two rams without blemish, 29:2 And unleavened bread, and
cakes unleavened tempered with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed
with oil: of wheaten flour shalt thou make them.

29:3 And thou shalt put them into one basket, and bring them in the
basket, with the bullock and the two rams.

29:4 And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with water.

29:5 And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat,
and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and
gird him with the curious girdle of the ephod: 29:6 And thou shalt put
the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre.

29:7 Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his
head, and anoint him.

29:8 And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon them.

29:9 And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and
put the bonnets on them: and the priest's office shall be theirs for a
perpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.

29:10 And thou shalt cause a bullock to be brought before the
tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron and his sons shall put their
hands upon the head of the bullock.

29:11 And thou shalt kill the bullock before the LORD, by the door of
the tabernacle of the congregation.

29:12 And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon
the horns of the altar with thy finger, and pour all the blood beside
the bottom of the altar.

29:13 And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inwards, and
the caul that is above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat
that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.

29:14 But the flesh of the bullock, and his skin, and his dung, shalt
thou burn with fire without the camp: it is a sin offering.

29:15 Thou shalt also take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put
their hands upon the head of the ram.

29:16 And thou shalt slay the ram, and thou shalt take his blood, and
sprinkle it round about upon the altar.

29:17 And thou shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards of
him, and his legs, and put them unto his pieces, and unto his head.

29:18 And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burnt
offering unto the LORD: it is a sweet savour, an offering made by fire
unto the LORD.

29:19 And thou shalt take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall
put their hands upon the head of the ram.

29:20 Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it
upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right
ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the
great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar
round about.

29:21 And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of
the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments,
and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and he
shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons'
garments with him.

29:22 Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat and the rump, and the
fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the
two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder;
for it is a ram of consecration: 29:23 And one loaf of bread, and one
cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened
bread that is before the LORD: 29:24 And thou shalt put all in the
hands of Aaron, and in the hands of his sons; and shalt wave them for
a wave offering before the LORD.

29:25 And thou shalt receive them of their hands, and burn them upon
the altar for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour before the LORD: it
is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

29:26 And thou shalt take the breast of the ram of Aaron's
consecration, and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD: and it
shall be thy part.

29:27 And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the
shoulder of the heave offering, which is waved, and which is heaved
up, of the ram of the consecration, even of that which is for Aaron,
and of that which is for his sons: 29:28 And it shall be Aaron's and
his sons' by a statute for ever from the children of Israel: for it is
an heave offering: and it shall be an heave offering from the children
of Israel of the sacrifice of their peace offerings, even their heave
offering unto the LORD.

29:29 And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons' after him, to
be anointed therein, and to be consecrated in them.

29:30 And that son that is priest in his stead shall put them on seven
days, when he cometh into the tabernacle of the congregation to
minister in the holy place.

29:31 And thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seethe his
flesh in the holy place.

29:32 And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the
bread that is in the basket by the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation.

29:33 And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonement was
made, to consecrate and to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat
thereof, because they are holy.

29:34 And if ought of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread,
remain unto the morning, then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire:
it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.

29:35 And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his sons, according to
all things which I have commanded thee: seven days shalt thou
consecrate them.

29:36 And thou shalt offer every day a bullock for a sin offering for
atonement: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast made an
atonement for it, and thou shalt anoint it, to sanctify it.

29:37 Seven days thou shalt make an atonement for the altar, and
sanctify it; and it shall be an altar most holy: whatsoever toucheth
the altar shall be holy.

29:38 Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar; two
lambs of the first year day by day continually.

29:39 The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning; and the other lamb
thou shalt offer at even: 29:40 And with the one lamb a tenth deal of
flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil; and the
fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering.

29:41 And the other lamb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt do
thereto according to the meat offering of the morning, and according
to the drink offering thereof, for a sweet savour, an offering made by
fire unto the LORD.

29:42 This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your
generations at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before
the LORD: where I will meet you, to speak there unto thee.

29:43 And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and the
tabernacle shall be sanctified by my glory.

29:44 And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation, and the
altar: I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons, to minister to me
in the priest's office.

29:45 And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their
God.

29:46 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, that brought
them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I may dwell among them: I am
the LORD their God.

30:1 And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon: of shittim
wood shalt thou make it.

30:2 A cubit shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth
thereof; foursquare shall it be: and two cubits shall be the height
thereof: the horns thereof shall be of the same.

30:3 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and
the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof; and thou shalt
make unto it a crown of gold round about.

30:4 And two golden rings shalt thou make to it under the crown of it,
by the two corners thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make
it; and they shall be for places for the staves to bear it withal.

30:5 And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold.

30:6 And thou shalt put it before the vail that is by the ark of the
testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I
will meet with thee.

30:7 And Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense every morning: when he
dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.

30:8 And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn incense
upon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your
generations.

30:9 Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice,
nor meat offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon.

30:10 And Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a
year with the blood of the sin offering of atonements: once in the
year shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations: it
is most holy unto the LORD.

30:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 30:12 When thou takest
the sum of the children of Israel after their number, then shall they
give every man a ransom for his soul unto the LORD, when thou
numberest them; that there be no plague among them, when thou
numberest them.

30:13 This they shall give, every one that passeth among them that are
numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: (a shekel
is twenty gerahs:) an half shekel shall be the offering of the LORD.

30:14 Every one that passeth among them that are numbered, from twenty
years old and above, shall give an offering unto the LORD.

30:15 The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less
than half a shekel, when they give an offering unto the LORD, to make
an atonement for your souls.

30:16 And thou shalt take the atonement money of the children of
Israel, and shalt appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of the
congregation; that it may be a memorial unto the children of Israel
before the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.

30:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 30:18 Thou shalt also
make a laver of brass, and his foot also of brass, to wash withal: and
thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the
altar, and thou shalt put water therein.

30:19 For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet
thereat: 30:20 When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation,
they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near
to the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the LORD:
30:21 So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die
not: and it shall be a statute for ever to them, even to him and to
his seed throughout their generations.

30:22 Moreover the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 30:23 Take thou also
unto thee principal spices, of pure myrrh five hundred shekels, and of
sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty shekels, and
of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels, 30:24 And of cassia
five hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of oil
olive an hin: 30:25 And thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment, an
ointment compound after the art of the apothecary: it shall be an holy
anointing oil.

30:26 And thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of the congregation
therewith, and the ark of the testimony, 30:27 And the table and all
his vessels, and the candlestick and his vessels, and the altar of
incense, 30:28 And the altar of burnt offering with all his vessels,
and the laver and his foot.

30:29 And thou shalt sanctify them, that they may be most holy:
whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy.

30:30 And thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them,
that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.

30:31 And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, This
shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.

30:32 Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make
any other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, and it
shall be holy unto you.

30:33 Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whosoever putteth any of
it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people.

30:34 And the LORD said unto Moses, Take unto thee sweet spices,
stacte, and onycha, and galbanum; these sweet spices with pure
frankincense: of each shall there be a like weight: 30:35 And thou
shalt make it a perfume, a confection after the art of the apothecary,
tempered together, pure and holy: 30:36 And thou shalt beat some of it
very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tabernacle of
the congregation, where I will meet with thee: it shall be unto you
most holy.

30:37 And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make
to yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto
thee holy for the LORD.

30:38 Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell thereto, shall
even be cut off from his people.

31:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 31:2 See, I have called by
name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:
31:3 And I have filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, and in
understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship,
31:4 To devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in
brass, 31:5 And in cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of
timber, to work in all manner of workmanship.

31:6 And I, behold, I have given with him Aholiab, the son of
Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan: and in the hearts of all that are wise
hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have
commanded thee; 31:7 The tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark
of the testimony, and the mercy seat that is thereupon, and all the
furniture of the tabernacle, 31:8 And the table and his furniture, and
the pure candlestick with all his furniture, and the altar of incense,
31:9 And the altar of burnt offering with all his furniture, and the
laver and his foot, 31:10 And the cloths of service, and the holy
garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to
minister in the priest's office, 31:11 And the anointing oil, and
sweet incense for the holy place: according to all that I have
commanded thee shall they do.

31:12 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 31:13 Speak thou also
unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily my sabbaths ye shall keep:
for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that
ye may know that I am the LORD that doth sanctify you.

31:14 Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore; for it is holy unto you:
every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoever
doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his
people.

31:15 Six days may work be done; but in the seventh is the sabbath of
rest, holy to the LORD: whosoever doeth any work in the sabbath day,
he shall surely be put to death.

31:16 Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to
observe the sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual
covenant.

31:17 It is a sign between me and the children of Israel for ever: for
in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he
rested, and was refreshed.

31:18 And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing
with him upon mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone,
written with the finger of God.

32:1 And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of
the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and
said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for
this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we
wot not what is become of him.

32:2 And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which
are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters,
and bring them unto me.

32:3 And all the people brake off the golden earrings which were in
their ears, and brought them unto Aaron.

32:4 And he received them at their hand, and fashioned it with a
graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These
be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

32:5 And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it; and Aaron
made proclamation, and said, To morrow is a feast to the LORD.

32:6 And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt
offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat
and to drink, and rose up to play.

32:7 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go, get thee down; for thy people,
which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted
themselves: 32:8 They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I
commanded them: they have made them a molten calf, and have worshipped
it, and have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, O
Israel, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

32:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and,
behold, it is a stiffnecked people: 32:10 Now therefore let me alone,
that my wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them:
and I will make of thee a great nation.

32:11 And Moses besought the LORD his God, and said, LORD, why doth
thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth
out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?
32:12 Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief did
he bring them out, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume them
from the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent of
this evil against thy people.

32:13 Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou
swarest by thine own self, and saidst unto them, I will multiply your
seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken of
will I give unto your seed, and they shall inherit it for ever.

32:14 And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought to do unto
his people.

32:15 And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the two
tables of the testimony were in his hand: the tables were written on
both their sides; on the one side and on the other were they written.

32:16 And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was the
writing of God, graven upon the tables.

32:17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted,
he said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp.

32:18 And he said, It is not the voice of them that shout for mastery,
neither is it the voice of them that cry for being overcome: but the
noise of them that sing do I hear.

32:19 And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that
he saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses' anger waxed hot, and he
cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.

32:20 And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it in the
fire, and ground it to powder, and strawed it upon the water, and made
the children of Israel drink of it.

32:21 And Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee, that
thou hast brought so great a sin upon them?  32:22 And Aaron said, Let
not the anger of my lord wax hot: thou knowest the people, that they
are set on mischief.

32:23 For they said unto me, Make us gods, which shall go before us:
for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of
Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

32:24 And I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break it
off. So they gave it me: then I cast it into the fire, and there came
out this calf.

32:25 And when Moses saw that the people were naked; (for Aaron had
made them naked unto their shame among their enemies:) 32:26 Then
Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Who is on the LORD's
side? let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered
themselves together unto him.

32:27 And he said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Put
every man his sword by his side, and go in and out from gate to gate
throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man his
companion, and every man his neighbour.

32:28 And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and
there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.

32:29 For Moses had said, Consecrate yourselves today to the LORD,
even every man upon his son, and upon his brother; that he may bestow
upon you a blessing this day.

32:30 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said unto the
people, Ye have sinned a great sin: and now I will go up unto the
LORD; peradventure I shall make an atonement for your sin.

32:31 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Oh, this people have
sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.

32:32 Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin--; and if not, blot me,
I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written.

32:33 And the LORD said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me,
him will I blot out of my book.

32:34 Therefore now go, lead the people unto the place of which I have
spoken unto thee: behold, mine Angel shall go before thee:
nevertheless in the day when I visit I will visit their sin upon them.

32:35 And the LORD plagued the people, because they made the calf,
which Aaron made.

33:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Depart, and go up hence, thou and
the people which thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, unto
the land which I sware unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying,
Unto thy seed will I give it: 33:2 And I will send an angel before
thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the
Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite: 33:3 Unto a
land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of
thee; for thou art a stiffnecked people: lest I consume thee in the
way.

33:4 And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and
no man did put on him his ornaments.

33:5 For the LORD had said unto Moses, Say unto the children of
Israel, Ye are a stiffnecked people: I will come up into the midst of
thee in a moment, and consume thee: therefore now put off thy
ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee.

33:6 And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments
by the mount Horeb.

33:7 And Moses took the tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp,
afar off from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the
congregation. And it came to pass, that every one which sought the
LORD went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which was
without the camp.

33:8 And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle,
that all the people rose up, and stood every man at his tent door, and
looked after Moses, until he was gone into the tabernacle.

33:9 And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the
cloudy pillar descended, and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and
the Lord talked with Moses.

33:10 And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacle
door: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man in his tent
door.

33:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh
unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servant
Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the
tabernacle.

33:12 And Moses said unto the LORD, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up
this people: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with
me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found
grace in my sight.

33:13 Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight,
shew me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in
thy sight: and consider that this nation is thy people.

33:14 And he said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will give
thee rest.

33:15 And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, carry us
not up hence.

33:16 For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have
found grace in thy sight? is it not in that thou goest with us? so
shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are
upon the face of the earth.

33:17 And the LORD said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that
thou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know
thee by name.

33:18 And he said, I beseech thee, shew me thy glory.

33:19 And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I
will proclaim the name of the LORD before thee; and will be gracious
to whom I will be gracious, and will shew mercy on whom I will shew
mercy.

33:20 And he said, Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no man
see me, and live.

33:21 And the LORD said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou
shalt stand upon a rock: 33:22 And it shall come to pass, while my
glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a clift of the rock, and
will cover thee with my hand while I pass by: 33:23 And I will take
away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shall
not be seen.

34:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like
unto the first: and I will write upon these tables the words that were
in the first tables, which thou brakest.

34:2 And be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning unto
mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me in the top of the mount.

34:3 And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seen
throughout all the mount; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before
that mount.

34:4 And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first; and Moses
rose up early in the morning, and went up unto mount Sinai, as the
LORD had commanded him, and took in his hand the two tables of stone.

34:5 And the LORD descended in the cloud, and stood with him there,
and proclaimed the name of the LORD.

34:6 And the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, The
LORD God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in
goodness and truth, 34:7 Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving
iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear
the guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children,
and upon the children's children, unto the third and to the fourth
generation.

34:8 And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and
worshipped.

34:9 And he said, If now I have found grace in thy sight, O LORD, let
my LORD, I pray thee, go among us; for it is a stiffnecked people; and
pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance.

34:10 And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people I
will do marvels, such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in
any nation: and all the people among which thou art shall see the work
of the LORD: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee.

34:11 Observe thou that which I command thee this day: behold, I drive
out before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and
the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.

34:12 Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the
inhabitants of the land whither thou goest, lest it be for a snare in
the midst of thee: 34:13 But ye shall destroy their altars, break
their images, and cut down their groves: 34:14 For thou shalt worship
no other god: for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God:
34:15 Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and
they go a whoring after their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods,
and one call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice; 34:16 And thou take
of their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go a whoring
after their gods, and make thy sons go a whoring after their gods.

34:17 Thou shalt make thee no molten gods.

34:18 The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep. Seven days thou
shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the time of the
month Abib: for in the month Abib thou camest out from Egypt.

34:19 All that openeth the matrix is mine; and every firstling among
thy cattle, whether ox or sheep, that is male.

34:20 But the firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb: and
if thou redeem him not, then shalt thou break his neck. All the
firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem. And none shall appear before
me empty.

34:21 Six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shalt
rest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest.

34:22 And thou shalt observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits of
wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year's end.

34:23 Thrice in the year shall all your menchildren appear before the
LORD God, the God of Israel.

34:24 For I will cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy
borders: neither shall any man desire thy land, when thou shalt go up
to appear before the LORD thy God thrice in the year.

34:25 Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven;
neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left unto
the morning.

34:26 The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring unto
the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his
mother's milk.

34:27 And the LORD said unto Moses, Write thou these words: for after
the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with
Israel.

34:28 And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he
did neither eat bread, nor drink water. And he wrote upon the tables
the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.

34:29 And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai with
the two tables of testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from the
mount, that Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while he
talked with him.

34:30 And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold,
the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him.

34:31 And Moses called unto them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the
congregation returned unto him: and Moses talked with them.

34:32 And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he gave
them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him in mount
Sinai.

34:33 And till Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail on his
face.

34:34 But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he
took the vail off, until he came out. And he came out, and spake unto
the children of Israel that which he was commanded.

34:35 And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin
of Moses' face shone: and Moses put the vail upon his face again,
until he went in to speak with him.

35:1 And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel
together, and said unto them, These are the words which the LORD hath
commanded, that ye should do them.

35:2 Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall
be to you an holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD: whosoever doeth
work therein shall be put to death.

35:3 Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the
sabbath day.

35:4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of
Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD commanded, saying,
35:5 Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD: whosoever is of
a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD; gold, and
silver, and brass, 35:6 And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine
linen, and goats' hair, 35:7 And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers'
skins, and shittim wood, 35:8 And oil for the light, and spices for
anointing oil, and for the sweet incense, 35:9 And onyx stones, and
stones to be set for the ephod, and for the breastplate.

35:10 And every wise hearted among you shall come, and make all that
the LORD hath commanded; 35:11 The tabernacle, his tent, and his
covering, his taches, and his boards, his bars, his pillars, and his
sockets, 35:12 The ark, and the staves thereof, with the mercy seat,
and the vail of the covering, 35:13 The table, and his staves, and all
his vessels, and the shewbread, 35:14 The candlestick also for the
light, and his furniture, and his lamps, with the oil for the light,
35:15 And the incense altar, and his staves, and the anointing oil,
and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entering in
of the tabernacle, 35:16 The altar of burnt offering, with his brasen
grate, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot, 35:17
The hangings of the court, his pillars, and their sockets, and the
hanging for the door of the court, 35:18 The pins of the tabernacle,
and the pins of the court, and their cords, 35:19 The cloths of
service, to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron
the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's
office.

35:20 And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from
the presence of Moses.

35:21 And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every
one whom his spirit made willing, and they brought the LORD's offering
to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all his
service, and for the holy garments.

35:22 And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing
hearted, and brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets,
all jewels of gold: and every man that offered offered an offering of
gold unto the LORD.

35:23 And every man, with whom was found blue, and purple, and
scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair, and red skins of rams, and
badgers' skins, brought them.

35:24 Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought
the LORD's offering: and every man, with whom was found shittim wood
for any work of the service, brought it.

35:25 And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their
hands, and brought that which they had spun, both of blue, and of
purple, and of scarlet, and of fine linen.

35:26 And all the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun
goats' hair.

35:27 And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set, for
the ephod, and for the breastplate; 35:28 And spice, and oil for the
light, and for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.

35:29 The children of Israel brought a willing offering unto the LORD,
every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all
manner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand of
Moses.

35:30 And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the LORD hath
called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe
of Judah; 35:31 And he hath filled him with the spirit of God, in
wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of
workmanship; 35:32 And to devise curious works, to work in gold, and
in silver, and in brass, 35:33 And in the cutting of stones, to set
them, and in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunning work.

35:34 And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both he, and
Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.

35:35 Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of
work, of the engraver, and of the cunning workman, and of the
embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen,
and of the weaver, even of them that do any work, and of those that
devise cunning work.

36:1 Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in
whom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all
manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that
the LORD had commanded.

36:2 And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted
man, in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, even every one whose
heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it: 36:3 And they
received of Moses all the offering, which the children of Israel had
brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it
withal. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning.

36:4 And all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the sanctuary,
came every man from his work which they made; 36:5 And they spake unto
Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service
of the work, which the LORD commanded to make.

36:6 And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed
throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more
work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained
from bringing.

36:7 For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make
it, and too much.

36:8 And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of
the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, and
purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of cunning work made he them.

36:9 The length of one curtain was twenty and eight cubits, and the
breadth of one curtain four cubits: the curtains were all of one size.

36:10 And he coupled the five curtains one unto another: and the other
five curtains he coupled one unto another.

36:11 And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the
selvedge in the coupling: likewise he made in the uttermost side of
another curtain, in the coupling of the second.

36:12 Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in
the edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second: the
loops held one curtain to another.

36:13 And he made fifty taches of gold, and coupled the curtains one
unto another with the taches: so it became one tabernacle.

36:14 And he made curtains of goats' hair for the tent over the
tabernacle: eleven curtains he made them.

36:15 The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits was
the breadth of one curtain: the eleven curtains were of one size.

36:16 And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by
themselves.

36:17 And he made fifty loops upon the uttermost edge of the curtain
in the coupling, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtain
which coupleth the second.

36:18 And he made fifty taches of brass to couple the tent together,
that it might be one.

36:19 And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and
a covering of badgers' skins above that.

36:20 And he made boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standing
up.

36:21 The length of a board was ten cubits, and the breadth of a board
one cubit and a half.

36:22 One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another: thus
did he make for all the boards of the tabernacle.

36:23 And he made boards for the tabernacle; twenty boards for the
south side southward: 36:24 And forty sockets of silver he made under
the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and
two sockets under another board for his two tenons.

36:25 And for the other side of the tabernacle, which is toward the
north corner, he made twenty boards, 36:26 And their forty sockets of
silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another
board.

36:27 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.

36:28 And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the
two sides.

36:29 And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the head
thereof, to one ring: thus he did to both of them in both the corners.

36:30 And there were eight boards; and their sockets were sixteen
sockets of silver, under every board two sockets.

36:31 And he made bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the one
side of the tabernacle, 36:32 And five bars for the boards of the
other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the
tabernacle for the sides westward.

36:33 And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from the
one end to the other.

36:34 And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of
gold to be places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.

36:35 And he made a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine
twined linen: with cherubims made he it of cunning work.

36:36 And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood, and overlaid
them with gold: their hooks were of gold; and he cast for them four
sockets of silver.

36:37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue, and
purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework; 36:38 And
the five pillars of it with their hooks: and he overlaid their
chapiters and their fillets with gold: but their five sockets were of
brass.

37:1 And Bezaleel made the ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half
was the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a
cubit and a half the height of it: 37:2 And he overlaid it with pure
gold within and without, and made a crown of gold to it round about.

37:3 And he cast for it four rings of gold, to be set by the four
corners of it; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two rings
upon the other side of it.

37:4 And he made staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold.

37:5 And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, to
bear the ark.

37:6 And he made the mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half
was the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof.

37:7 And he made two cherubims of gold, beaten out of one piece made
he them, on the two ends of the mercy seat; 37:8 One cherub on the end
on this side, and another cherub on the other end on that side: out of
the mercy seat made he the cherubims on the two ends thereof.

37:9 And the cherubims spread out their wings on high, and covered
with their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another;
even to the mercy seatward were the faces of the cherubims.

37:10 And he made the table of shittim wood: two cubits was the length
thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the
height thereof: 37:11 And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made
thereunto a crown of gold round about.

37:12 Also he made thereunto a border of an handbreadth round about;
and made a crown of gold for the border thereof round about.

37:13 And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings upon
the four corners that were in the four feet thereof.

37:14 Over against the border were the rings, the places for the
staves to bear the table.

37:15 And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with
gold, to bear the table.

37:16 And he made the vessels which were upon the table, his dishes,
and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover withal, of pure
gold.

37:17 And he made the candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work made he
the candlestick; his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his knops, and
his flowers, were of the same: 37:18 And six branches going out of the
sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side
thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side
thereof: 37:19 Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in one
branch, a knop and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds in
another branch, a knop and a flower: so throughout the six branches
going out of the candlestick.

37:20 And in the candlestick were four bowls made like almonds, his
knops, and his flowers: 37:21 And a knop under two branches of the
same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two
branches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it.

37:22 Their knops and their branches were of the same: all of it was
one beaten work of pure gold.

37:23 And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and his
snuffdishes, of pure gold.

37:24 Of a talent of pure gold made he it, and all the vessels
thereof.

37:25 And he made the incense altar of shittim wood: the length of it
was a cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; it was foursquare; and two
cubits was the height of it; the horns thereof were of the same.

37:26 And he overlaid it with pure gold, both the top of it, and the
sides thereof round about, and the horns of it: also he made unto it a
crown of gold round about.

37:27 And he made two rings of gold for it under the crown thereof, by
the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places for
the staves to bear it withal.

37:28 And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with
gold.

37:29 And he made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense of
sweet spices, according to the work of the apothecary.

38:1 And he made the altar of burnt offering of shittim wood: five
cubits was the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth thereof; it
was foursquare; and three cubits the height thereof.

38:2 And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it; the
horns thereof were of the same: and he overlaid it with brass.

38:3 And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the
shovels, and the basons, and the fleshhooks, and the firepans: all the
vessels thereof made he of brass.

38:4 And he made for the altar a brasen grate of network under the
compass thereof beneath unto the midst of it.

38:5 And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass,
to be places for the staves.

38:6 And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with
brass.

38:7 And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar,
to bear it withal; he made the altar hollow with boards.

38:8 And he made the laver of brass, and the foot of it of brass, of
the lookingglasses of the women assembling, which assembled at the
door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

38:9 And he made the court: on the south side southward the hangings
of the court were of fine twined linen, an hundred cubits: 38:10 Their
pillars were twenty, and their brasen sockets twenty; the hooks of the
pillars and their fillets were of silver.

38:11 And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cubits,
their pillars were twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; the
hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver.

38:12 And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their
pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their
fillets of silver.

38:13 And for the east side eastward fifty cubits.

38:14 The hangings of the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits;
their pillars three, and their sockets three.

38:15 And for the other side of the court gate, on this hand and that
hand, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their
sockets three.

38:16 All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined
linen.

38:17 And the sockets for the pillars were of brass; the hooks of the
pillars and their fillets of silver; and the overlaying of their
chapiters of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted
with silver.

38:18 And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework, of
blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: and twenty
cubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits,
answerable to the hangings of the court.

38:19 And their pillars were four, and their sockets of brass four;
their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters and their
fillets of silver.

38:20 And all the pins of the tabernacle, and of the court round
about, were of brass.

38:21 This is the sum of the tabernacle, even of the tabernacle of
testimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses,
for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaron
the priest.

38:22 And Bezaleel the son Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah,
made all that the LORD commanded Moses.

38:23 And with him was Aholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan,
an engraver, and a cunning workman, and an embroiderer in blue, and in
purple, and in scarlet, and fine linen.

38:24 All the gold that was occupied for the work in all the work of
the holy place, even the gold of the offering, was twenty and nine
talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, after the shekel of the
sanctuary.

38:25 And the silver of them that were numbered of the congregation
was an hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and threescore
and fifteen shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary: 38:26 A bekah
for every man, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the
sanctuary, for every one that went to be numbered, from twenty years
old and upward, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five
hundred and fifty men.

38:27 And of the hundred talents of silver were cast the sockets of
the sanctuary, and the sockets of the vail; an hundred sockets of the
hundred talents, a talent for a socket.

38:28 And of the thousand seven hundred seventy and five shekels he
made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their chapiters, and filleted
them.

38:29 And the brass of the offering was seventy talents, and two
thousand and four hundred shekels.

38:30 And therewith he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacle
of the congregation, and the brasen altar, and the brasen grate for
it, and all the vessels of the altar, 38:31 And the sockets of the
court round about, and the sockets of the court gate, and all the pins
of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about.

39:1 And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths of
service, to do service in the holy place, and made the holy garments
for Aaron; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:2 And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and
fine twined linen.

39:3 And they did beat the gold into thin plates, and cut it into
wires, to work it in the blue, and in the purple, and in the scarlet,
and in the fine linen, with cunning work.

39:4 They made shoulderpieces for it, to couple it together: by the
two edges was it coupled together.

39:5 And the curious girdle of his ephod, that was upon it, was of the
same, according to the work thereof; of gold, blue, and purple, and
scarlet, and fine twined linen; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:6 And they wrought onyx stones inclosed in ouches of gold, graven,
as signets are graven, with the names of the children of Israel.

39:7 And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, that they should
be stones for a memorial to the children of Israel; as the LORD
commanded Moses.

39:8 And he made the breastplate of cunning work, like the work of the
ephod; of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

39:9 It was foursquare; they made the breastplate double: a span was
the length thereof, and a span the breadth thereof, being doubled.

39:10 And they set in it four rows of stones: the first row was a
sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this was the first row.

39:11 And the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.

39:12 And the third row, a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.

39:13 And the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper: they were
inclosed in ouches of gold in their inclosings.

39:14 And the stones were according to the names of the children of
Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a
signet, every one with his name, according to the twelve tribes.

39:15 And they made upon the breastplate chains at the ends, of
wreathen work of pure gold.

39:16 And they made two ouches of gold, and two gold rings; and put
the two rings in the two ends of the breastplate.

39:17 And they put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings on
the ends of the breastplate.

39:18 And the two ends of the two wreathen chains they fastened in the
two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, before
it.

39:19 And they made two rings of gold, and put them on the two ends of
the breastplate, upon the border of it, which was on the side of the
ephod inward.

39:20 And they made two other golden rings, and put them on the two
sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart of it, over against
the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod.

39:21 And they did bind the breastplate by his rings unto the rings of
the ephod with a lace of blue, that it might be above the curious
girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not be loosed from
the ephod; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:22 And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue.

39:23 And there was an hole in the midst of the robe, as the hole of
an habergeon, with a band round about the hole, that it should not
rend.

39:24 And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue,
and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen.

39:25 And they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the
pomegranates upon the hem of the robe, round about between the
pomegranates; 39:26 A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a
pomegranate, round about the hem of the robe to minister in; as the
LORD commanded Moses.

39:27 And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron, and
for his sons, 39:28 And a mitre of fine linen, and goodly bonnets of
fine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen, 39:29 And a
girdle of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, of
needlework; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:30 And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and
wrote upon it a writing, like to the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS
TO THE LORD.

39:31 And they tied unto it a lace of blue, to fasten it on high upon
the mitre; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:32 Thus was all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of the
congregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to all
that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.

39:33 And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses, the tent, and all
his furniture, his taches, his boards, his bars, and his pillars, and
his sockets, 39:34 And the covering of rams' skins dyed red, and the
covering of badgers' skins, and the vail of the covering, 39:35 The
ark of the testimony, and the staves thereof, and the mercy seat,
39:36 The table, and all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread, 39:37
The pure candlestick, with the lamps thereof, even with the lamps to
be set in order, and all the vessels thereof, and the oil for light,
39:38 And the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the sweet
incense, and the hanging for the tabernacle door, 39:39 The brasen
altar, and his grate of brass, his staves, and all his vessels, the
laver and his foot, 39:40 The hangings of the court, his pillars, and
his sockets, and the hanging for the court gate, his cords, and his
pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle, for the
tent of the congregation, 39:41 The cloths of service to do service in
the holy place, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and his
sons' garments, to minister in the priest's office.

39:42 According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the children
of Israel made all the work.

39:43 And Moses did look upon all the work, and, behold, they had done
it as the LORD had commanded, even so had they done it: and Moses
blessed them.

40:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 40:2 On the first day of
the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the
congregation.

40:3 And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and cover
the ark with the vail.

40:4 And thou shalt bring in the table, and set in order the things
that are to be set in order upon it; and thou shalt bring in the
candlestick, and light the lamps thereof.

40:5 And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before the
ark of the testimony, and put the hanging of the door to the
tabernacle.

40:6 And thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offering before the
door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.

40:7 And thou shalt set the laver between the tent of the congregation
and the altar, and shalt put water therein.

40:8 And thou shalt set up the court round about, and hang up the
hanging at the court gate.

40:9 And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle,
and all that is therein, and shalt hallow it, and all the vessels
thereof: and it shall be holy.

40:10 And thou shalt anoint the altar of the burnt offering, and all
his vessels, and sanctify the altar: and it shall be an altar most
holy.

40:11 And thou shalt anoint the laver and his foot, and sanctify it.

40:12 And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, and wash them with water.

40:13 And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him,
and sanctify him; that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.

40:14 And thou shalt bring his sons, and clothe them with coats: 40:15
And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their father, that
they may minister unto me in the priest's office: for their anointing
shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their
generations.

40:16 Thus did Moses: according to all that the LORD commanded him, so
did he.

40:17 And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on
the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up.

40:18 And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and fastened his sockets,
and set up the boards thereof, and put in the bars thereof, and reared
up his pillars.

40:19 And he spread abroad the tent over the tabernacle, and put the
covering of the tent above upon it; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:20 And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the
staves on the ark, and put the mercy seat above upon the ark: 40:21
And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the vail of the
covering, and covered the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commanded
Moses.

40:22 And he put the table in the tent of the congregation, upon the
side of the tabernacle northward, without the vail.

40:23 And he set the bread in order upon it before the LORD; as the
LORD had commanded Moses.

40:24 And he put the candlestick in the tent of the congregation, over
against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.

40:25 And he lighted the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD commanded
Moses.

40:26 And he put the golden altar in the tent of the congregation
before the vail: 40:27 And he burnt sweet incense thereon; as the LORD
commanded Moses.

40:28 And he set up the hanging at the door of the tabernacle.

40:29 And he put the altar of burnt offering by the door of the
tabernacle of the tent of the congregation, and offered upon it the
burnt offering and the meat offering; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:30 And he set the laver between the tent of the congregation and
the altar, and put water there, to wash withal.

40:31 And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their
feet thereat: 40:32 When they went into the tent of the congregation,
and when they came near unto the altar, they washed; as the LORD
commanded Moses.

40:33 And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the
altar, and set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the
work.

40:34 Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory
of the LORD filled the tabernacle.

40:35 And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the
congregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the
LORD filled the tabernacle.

40:36 And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the
children of Israel went onward in all their journeys: 40:37 But if the
cloud were not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that it
was taken up.

40:38 For the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, and
fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel,
throughout all their journeys.




The Third Book of Moses:  Called Leviticus


1:1 And the LORD called unto Moses, and spake unto him out of the
tabernacle of the congregation, saying, 1:2 Speak unto the children of
Israel, and say unto them, If any man of you bring an offering unto
the LORD, ye shall bring your offering of the cattle, even of the
herd, and of the flock.

1:3 If his offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a
male without blemish: he shall offer it of his own voluntary will at
the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD.

1:4 And he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering; and
it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him.

1:5 And he shall kill the bullock before the LORD: and the priests,
Aaron's sons, shall bring the blood, and sprinkle the blood round
about upon the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation.

1:6 And he shall flay the burnt offering, and cut it into his pieces.

1:7 And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar,
and lay the wood in order upon the fire: 1:8 And the priests, Aaron's
sons, shall lay the parts, the head, and the fat, in order upon the
wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar: 1:9 But his inwards
and his legs shall he wash in water: and the priest shall burn all on
the altar, to be a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a
sweet savour unto the LORD.

1:10 And if his offering be of the flocks, namely, of the sheep, or of
the goats, for a burnt sacrifice; he shall bring it a male without
blemish.

1:11 And he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before
the LORD: and the priests, Aaron's sons, shall sprinkle his blood
round about upon the altar.

1:12 And he shall cut it into his pieces, with his head and his fat:
and the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire
which is upon the altar: 1:13 But he shall wash the inwards and the
legs with water: and the priest shall bring it all, and burn it upon
the altar: it is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a
sweet savour unto the LORD.

1:14 And if the burnt sacrifice for his offering to the LORD be of
fowls, then he shall bring his offering of turtledoves, or of young
pigeons.

1:15 And the priest shall bring it unto the altar, and wring off his
head, and burn it on the altar; and the blood thereof shall be wrung
out at the side of the altar: 1:16 And he shall pluck away his crop
with his feathers, and cast it beside the altar on the east part, by
the place of the ashes: 1:17 And he shall cleave it with the wings
thereof, but shall not divide it asunder: and the priest shall burn it
upon the altar, upon the wood that is upon the fire: it is a burnt
sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

2:1 And when any will offer a meat offering unto the LORD, his
offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and
put frankincense thereon: 2:2 And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons
the priests: and he shall take thereout his handful of the flour
thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof;
and the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an
offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: 2:3 And the
remnant of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a
thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.

2:4 And if thou bring an oblation of a meat offering baken in the
oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or
unleavened wafers anointed with oil.

2:5 And if thy oblation be a meat offering baken in a pan, it shall be
of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.

2:6 Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a meat
offering.

2:7 And if thy oblation be a meat offering baken in the fryingpan, it
shall be made of fine flour with oil.

2:8 And thou shalt bring the meat offering that is made of these
things unto the LORD: and when it is presented unto the priest, he
shall bring it unto the altar.

2:9 And the priest shall take from the meat offering a memorial
thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar: it is an offering made by
fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

2:10 And that which is left of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and
his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made
by fire.

2:11 No meat offering, which ye shall bring unto the LORD, shall be
made with leaven: for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any
offering of the LORD made by fire.

2:12 As for the oblation of the firstfruits, ye shall offer them unto
the LORD: but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savour.

2:13 And every oblation of thy meat offering shalt thou season with
salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to
be lacking from thy meat offering: with all thine offerings thou shalt
offer salt.

2:14 And if thou offer a meat offering of thy firstfruits unto the
LORD, thou shalt offer for the meat offering of thy firstfruits green
ears of corn dried by the fire, even corn beaten out of full ears.

2:15 And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it
is a meat offering.

2:16 And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the beaten
corn thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense
thereof: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

3:1 And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offer
it of the herd; whether it be a male or female, he shall offer it
without blemish before the LORD.

3:2 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill
it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons
the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.

3:3 And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an
offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the
inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 3:4 And the two
kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the
caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.

3:5 And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt
sacrifice, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an
offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

3:6 And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering unto the
LORD be of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without
blemish.

3:7 If he offer a lamb for his offering, then shall he offer it before
the LORD.

3:8 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill
it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons shall
sprinkle the blood thereof round about upon the altar.

3:9 And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an
offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat thereof, and the whole
rump, it shall he take off hard by the backbone; and the fat that
covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 3:10
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the
flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he
take away.

3:11 And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of
the offering made by fire unto the LORD.

3:12 And if his offering be a goat, then he shall offer it before the
LORD.

3:13 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before
the tabernacle of the congregation: and the sons of Aaron shall
sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.

3:14 And he shall offer thereof his offering, even an offering made by
fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat
that is upon the inwards, 3:15 And the two kidneys, and the fat that
is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver,
with the kidneys, it shall he take away.

3:16 And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of
the offering made by fire for a sweet savour: all the fat is the
LORD's.

3:17 It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations throughout
all your dwellings, that ye eat neither fat nor blood.

4:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 4:2 Speak unto the children
of Israel, saying, If a soul shall sin through ignorance against any
of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to
be done, and shall do against any of them: 4:3 If the priest that is
anointed do sin according to the sin of the people; then let him bring
for his sin, which he hath sinned, a young bullock without blemish
unto the LORD for a sin offering.

4:4 And he shall bring the bullock unto the door of the tabernacle of
the congregation before the LORD; and shall lay his hand upon the
bullock's head, and kill the bullock before the LORD.

4:5 And the priest that is anointed shall take of the bullock's blood,
and bring it to the tabernacle of the congregation: 4:6 And the priest
shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle of the blood seven
times before the LORD, before the vail of the sanctuary.

4:7 And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the
altar of sweet incense before the LORD, which is in the tabernacle of
the congregation; and shall pour all the blood of the bullock at the
bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation.

4:8 And he shall take off from it all the fat of the bullock for the
sin offering; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that
is upon the inwards, 4:9 And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon
them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the
kidneys, it shall he take away, 4:10 As it was taken off from the
bullock of the sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shall burn
them upon the altar of the burnt offering.

4:11 And the skin of the bullock, and all his flesh, with his head,
and with his legs, and his inwards, and his dung, 4:12 Even the whole
bullock shall he carry forth without the camp unto a clean place,
where the ashes are poured out, and burn him on the wood with fire:
where the ashes are poured out shall he be burnt.

4:13 And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance,
and the thing be hid from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done
somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things
which should not be done, and are guilty; 4:14 When the sin, which
they have sinned against it, is known, then the congregation shall
offer a young bullock for the sin, and bring him before the tabernacle
of the congregation.

4:15 And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the
head of the bullock before the LORD: and the bullock shall be killed
before the LORD.

4:16 And the priest that is anointed shall bring of the bullock's
blood to the tabernacle of the congregation: 4:17 And the priest shall
dip his finger in some of the blood, and sprinkle it seven times
before the LORD, even before the vail.

4:18 And he shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar
which is before the LORD, that is in the tabernacle of the
congregation, and shall pour out all the blood at the bottom of the
altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of
the congregation.

4:19 And he shall take all his fat from him, and burn it upon the
altar.

4:20 And he shall do with the bullock as he did with the bullock for a
sin offering, so shall he do with this: and the priest shall make an
atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them.

4:21 And he shall carry forth the bullock without the camp, and burn
him as he burned the first bullock: it is a sin offering for the
congregation.

4:22 When a ruler hath sinned, and done somewhat through ignorance
against any of the commandments of the LORD his God concerning things
which should not be done, and is guilty; 4:23 Or if his sin, wherein
he hath sinned, come to his knowledge; he shall bring his offering, a
kid of the goats, a male without blemish: 4:24 And he shall lay his
hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they
kill the burnt offering before the LORD: it is a sin offering.

4:25 And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with
his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering,
and shall pour out his blood at the bottom of the altar of burnt
offering.

4:26 And he shall burn all his fat upon the altar, as the fat of the
sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shall make an atonement
for him as concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him.

4:27 And if any one of the common people sin through ignorance, while
he doeth somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORD
concerning things which ought not to be done, and be guilty; 4:28 Or
if his sin, which he hath sinned, come to his knowledge: then he shall
bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for
his sin which he hath sinned.

4:29 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and
slay the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering.

4:30 And the priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger,
and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall
pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar.

4:31 And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat is taken
away from off the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall
burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour unto the LORD; and the
priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven him.

4:32 And if he bring a lamb for a sin offering, he shall bring it a
female without blemish.

4:33 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and
slay it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt
offering.

4:34 And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with
his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering,
and shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar:
4:35 And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat of the
lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of the peace offerings; and the
priest shall burn them upon the altar, according to the offerings made
by fire unto the LORD: and the priest shall make an atonement for his
sin that he hath committed, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:1 And if a soul sin, and hear the voice of swearing, and is a
witness, whether he hath seen or known of it; if he do not utter it,
then he shall bear his iniquity.

5:2 Or if a soul touch any unclean thing, whether it be a carcase of
an unclean beast, or a carcase of unclean cattle, or the carcase of
unclean creeping things, and if it be hidden from him; he also shall
be unclean, and guilty.

5:3 Or if he touch the uncleanness of man, whatsoever uncleanness it
be that a man shall be defiled withal, and it be hid from him; when he
knoweth of it, then he shall be guilty.

5:4 Or if a soul swear, pronouncing with his lips to do evil, or to do
good, whatsoever it be that a man shall pronounce with an oath, and it
be hid from him; when he knoweth of it, then he shall be guilty in one
of these.

5:5 And it shall be, when he shall be guilty in one of these things,
that he shall confess that he hath sinned in that thing: 5:6 And he
shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD for his sin which he
hath sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a kid of the goats,
for a sin offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him
concerning his sin.

5:7 And if he be not able to bring a lamb, then he shall bring for his
trespass, which he hath committed, two turtledoves, or two young
pigeons, unto the LORD; one for a sin offering, and the other for a
burnt offering.

5:8 And he shall bring them unto the priest, who shall offer that
which is for the sin offering first, and wring off his head from his
neck, but shall not divide it asunder: 5:9 And he shall sprinkle of
the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar; and the rest
of the blood shall be wrung out at the bottom of the altar: it is a
sin offering.

5:10 And he shall offer the second for a burnt offering, according to
the manner: and the priest shall make an atonement for him for his sin
which he hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:11 But if he be not able to bring two turtledoves, or two young
pigeons, then he that sinned shall bring for his offering the tenth
part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall put no oil
upon it, neither shall he put any frankincense thereon: for it is a
sin offering.

5:12 Then shall he bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take
his handful of it, even a memorial thereof, and burn it on the altar,
according to the offerings made by fire unto the LORD: it is a sin
offering.

5:13 And the priest shall make an atonement for him as touching his
sin that he hath sinned in one of these, and it shall be forgiven him:
and the remnant shall be the priest's, as a meat offering.

5:14 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 5:15 If a soul commit a
trespass, and sin through ignorance, in the holy things of the LORD;
then he shall bring for his trespass unto the LORD a ram without
blemish out of the flocks, with thy estimation by shekels of silver,
after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.

5:16 And he shall make amends for the harm that he hath done in the
holy thing, and shall add the fifth part thereto, and give it unto the
priest: and the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of
the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:17 And if a soul sin, and commit any of these things which are
forbidden to be done by the commandments of the LORD; though he wist
it not, yet is he guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.

5:18 And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, with
thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest: and the
priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance
wherein he erred and wist it not, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:19 It is a trespass offering: he hath certainly trespassed against
the LORD.

6:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:2 If a soul sin, and
commit a trespass against the LORD, and lie unto his neighbour in that
which was delivered him to keep, or in fellowship, or in a thing taken
away by violence, or hath deceived his neighbour; 6:3 Or have found
that which was lost, and lieth concerning it, and sweareth falsely; in
any of all these that a man doeth, sinning therein: 6:4 Then it shall
be, because he hath sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that
which he took violently away, or the thing which he hath deceitfully
gotten, or that which was delivered him to keep, or the lost thing
which he found, 6:5 Or all that about which he hath sworn falsely; he
shall even restore it in the principal, and shall add the fifth part
more thereto, and give it unto him to whom it appertaineth, in the day
of his trespass offering.

6:6 And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, a ram
without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass
offering, unto the priest: 6:7 And the priest shall make an atonement
for him before the LORD: and it shall be forgiven him for any thing of
all that he hath done in trespassing therein.

6:8 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:9 Command Aaron and his
sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: It is the burnt
offering, because of the burning upon the altar all night unto the
morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it.

6:10 And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen
breeches shall he put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the
fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall
put them beside the altar.

6:11 And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and
carry forth the ashes without the camp unto a clean place.

6:12 And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it; it shall not
be put out: and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and
lay the burnt offering in order upon it; and he shall burn thereon the
fat of the peace offerings.

6:13 The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall never go
out.

6:14 And this is the law of the meat offering: the sons of Aaron shall
offer it before the LORD, before the altar.

6:15 And he shall take of it his handful, of the flour of the meat
offering, and of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is
upon the meat offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet
savour, even the memorial of it, unto the LORD.

6:16 And the remainder thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat: with
unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the court of
the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it.

6:17 It shall not be baken with leaven. I have given it unto them for
their portion of my offerings made by fire; it is most holy, as is the
sin offering, and as the trespass offering.

6:18 All the males among the children of Aaron shall eat of it. It
shall be a statute for ever in your generations concerning the
offerings of the LORD made by fire: every one that toucheth them shall
be holy.

6:19 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:20 This is the offering
of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer unto the LORD in the
day when he is anointed; the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for
a meat offering perpetual, half of it in the morning, and half thereof
at night.

6:21 In a pan it shall be made with oil; and when it is baken, thou
shalt bring it in: and the baken pieces of the meat offering shalt
thou offer for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

6:22 And the priest of his sons that is anointed in his stead shall
offer it: it is a statute for ever unto the LORD; it shall be wholly
burnt.

6:23 For every meat offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt: it
shall not be eaten.

6:24 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:25 Speak unto Aaron and
to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering: In the place
where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offering be killed
before the LORD: it is most holy.

6:26 The priest that offereth it for sin shall eat it: in the holy
place shall it be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of the
congregation.

6:27 Whatsoever shall touch the flesh thereof shall be holy: and when
there is sprinkled of the blood thereof upon any garment, thou shalt
wash that whereon it was sprinkled in the holy place.

6:28 But the earthen vessel wherein it is sodden shall be broken: and
if it be sodden in a brasen pot, it shall be both scoured, and rinsed
in water.

6:29 All the males among the priests shall eat thereof: it is most
holy.

6:30 And no sin offering, whereof any of the blood is brought into the
tabernacle of the congregation to reconcile withal in the holy place,
shall be eaten: it shall be burnt in the fire.

7:1 Likewise this is the law of the trespass offering: it is most
holy.

7:2 In the place where they kill the burnt offering shall they kill
the trespass offering: and the blood thereof shall he sprinkle round
about upon the altar.

7:3 And he shall offer of it all the fat thereof; the rump, and the
fat that covereth the inwards, 7:4 And the two kidneys, and the fat
that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul that is above
the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away: 7:5 And the priest
shall burn them upon the altar for an offering made by fire unto the
LORD: it is a trespass offering.

7:6 Every male among the priests shall eat thereof: it shall be eaten
in the holy place: it is most holy.

7:7 As the sin offering is, so is the trespass offering: there is one
law for them: the priest that maketh atonement therewith shall have
it.

7:8 And the priest that offereth any man's burnt offering, even the
priest shall have to himself the skin of the burnt offering which he
hath offered.

7:9 And all the meat offering that is baken in the oven, and all that
is dressed in the fryingpan, and in the pan, shall be the priest's
that offereth it.

7:10 And every meat offering, mingled with oil, and dry, shall all the
sons of Aaron have, one as much as another.

7:11 And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he
shall offer unto the LORD.

7:12 If he offer it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the
sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and
unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, of
fine flour, fried.

7:13 Besides the cakes, he shall offer for his offering leavened bread
with the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace offerings.

7:14 And of it he shall offer one out of the whole oblation for an
heave offering unto the LORD, and it shall be the priest's that
sprinkleth the blood of the peace offerings.

7:15 And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for
thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is offered; he shall
not leave any of it until the morning.

7:16 But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or a voluntary
offering, it shall be eaten the same day that he offereth his
sacrifice: and on the morrow also the remainder of it shall be eaten:
7:17 But the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day
shall be burnt with fire.

7:18 And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings
be eaten at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, neither
shall it be imputed unto him that offereth it: it shall be an
abomination, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity.

7:19 And the flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten;
it shall be burnt with fire: and as for the flesh, all that be clean
shall eat thereof.

7:20 But the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace
offerings, that pertain unto the LORD, having his uncleanness upon
him, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.

7:21 Moreover the soul that shall touch any unclean thing, as the
uncleanness of man, or any unclean beast, or any abominable unclean
thing, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which
pertain unto the LORD, even that soul shall be cut off from his
people.

7:22 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 7:23 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, Ye shall eat no manner of fat, of ox, or
of sheep, or of goat.

7:24 And the fat of the beast that dieth of itself, and the fat of
that which is torn with beasts, may be used in any other use: but ye
shall in no wise eat of it.

7:25 For whosoever eateth the fat of the beast, of which men offer an
offering made by fire unto the LORD, even the soul that eateth it
shall be cut off from his people.

7:26 Moreover ye shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of fowl
or of beast, in any of your dwellings.

7:27 Whatsoever soul it be that eateth any manner of blood, even that
soul shall be cut off from his people.

7:28 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 7:29 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, He that offereth the sacrifice of his
peace offerings unto the LORD shall bring his oblation unto the LORD
of the sacrifice of his peace offerings.

7:30 His own hands shall bring the offerings of the LORD made by fire,
the fat with the breast, it shall he bring, that the breast may be
waved for a wave offering before the LORD.

7:31 And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar: but the breast
shall be Aaron's and his sons'.

7:32 And the right shoulder shall ye give unto the priest for an heave
offering of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.

7:33 He among the sons of Aaron, that offereth the blood of the peace
offerings, and the fat, shall have the right shoulder for his part.

7:34 For the wave breast and the heave shoulder have I taken of the
children of Israel from off the sacrifices of their peace offerings,
and have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons by a
statute for ever from among the children of Israel.

7:35 This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron, and of the
anointing of his sons, out of the offerings of the LORD made by fire,
in the day when he presented them to minister unto the LORD in the
priest's office; 7:36 Which the LORD commanded to be given them of the
children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them, by a statute for
ever throughout their generations.

7:37 This is the law of the burnt offering, of the meat offering, and
of the sin offering, and of the trespass offering, and of the
consecrations, and of the sacrifice of the peace offerings; 7:38 Which
the LORD commanded Moses in mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded
the children of Israel to offer their oblations unto the LORD, in the
wilderness of Sinai.

8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 8:2 Take Aaron and his sons
with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and a bullock for
the sin offering, and two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread; 8:3
And gather thou all the congregation together unto the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation.

8:4 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him; and the assembly was
gathered together unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

8:5 And Moses said unto the congregation, This is the thing which the
LORD commanded to be done.

8:6 And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water.

8:7 And he put upon him the coat, and girded him with the girdle, and
clothed him with the robe, and put the ephod upon him, and he girded
him with the curious girdle of the ephod, and bound it unto him
therewith.

8:8 And he put the breastplate upon him: also he put in the
breastplate the Urim and the Thummim.

8:9 And he put the mitre upon his head; also upon the mitre, even upon
his forefront, did he put the golden plate, the holy crown; as the
LORD commanded Moses.

8:10 And Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and
all that was therein, and sanctified them.

8:11 And he sprinkled thereof upon the altar seven times, and anointed
the altar and all his vessels, both the laver and his foot, to
sanctify them.

8:12 And he poured of the anointing oil upon Aaron's head, and
anointed him, to sanctify him.

8:13 And Moses brought Aaron's sons, and put coats upon them, and
girded them with girdles, and put bonnets upon them; as the LORD
commanded Moses.

8:14 And he brought the bullock for the sin offering: and Aaron and
his sons laid their hands upon the head of the bullock for the sin
offering.

8:15 And he slew it; and Moses took the blood, and put it upon the
horns of the altar round about with his finger, and purified the
altar, and poured the blood at the bottom of the altar, and sanctified
it, to make reconciliation upon it.

8:16 And he took all the fat that was upon the inwards, and the caul
above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and Moses burned
it upon the altar.

8:17 But the bullock, and his hide, his flesh, and his dung, he burnt
with fire without the camp; as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:18 And he brought the ram for the burnt offering: and Aaron and his
sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram.

8:19 And he killed it; and Moses sprinkled the blood upon the altar
round about.

8:20 And he cut the ram into pieces; and Moses burnt the head, and the
pieces, and the fat.

8:21 And he washed the inwards and the legs in water; and Moses burnt
the whole ram upon the altar: it was a burnt sacrifice for a sweet
savour, and an offering made by fire unto the LORD; as the LORD
commanded Moses.

8:22 And he brought the other ram, the ram of consecration: and Aaron
and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram.

8:23 And he slew it; and Moses took of the blood of it, and put it
upon the tip of Aaron's right ear, and upon the thumb of his right
hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot.

8:24 And he brought Aaron's sons, and Moses put of the blood upon the
tip of their right ear, and upon the thumbs of their right hands, and
upon the great toes of their right feet: and Moses sprinkled the blood
upon the altar round about.

8:25 And he took the fat, and the rump, and all the fat that was upon
the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and
their fat, and the right shoulder: 8:26 And out of the basket of
unleavened bread, that was before the LORD, he took one unleavened
cake, and a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them on the
fat, and upon the right shoulder: 8:27 And he put all upon Aaron's
hands, and upon his sons' hands, and waved them for a wave offering
before the LORD.

8:28 And Moses took them from off their hands, and burnt them on the
altar upon the burnt offering: they were consecrations for a sweet
savour: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

8:29 And Moses took the breast, and waved it for a wave offering
before the LORD: for of the ram of consecration it was Moses' part; as
the LORD commanded Moses.

8:30 And Moses took of the anointing oil, and of the blood which was
upon the altar, and sprinkled it upon Aaron, and upon his garments,
and upon his sons, and upon his sons' garments with him; and
sanctified Aaron, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons'
garments with him.

8:31 And Moses said unto Aaron and to his sons, Boil the flesh at the
door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and there eat it with the
bread that is in the basket of consecrations, as I commanded, saying,
Aaron and his sons shall eat it.

8:32 And that which remaineth of the flesh and of the bread shall ye
burn with fire.

8:33 And ye shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation in seven days, until the days of your consecration be at
an end: for seven days shall he consecrate you.

8:34 As he hath done this day, so the LORD hath commanded to do, to
make an atonement for you.

8:35 Therefore shall ye abide at the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation day and night seven days, and keep the charge of the
LORD, that ye die not: for so I am commanded.

8:36 So Aaron and his sons did all things which the LORD commanded by
the hand of Moses.

9:1 And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and
his sons, and the elders of Israel; 9:2 And he said unto Aaron, Take
thee a young calf for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering,
without blemish, and offer them before the LORD.

9:3 And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, Take ye
a kid of the goats for a sin offering; and a calf and a lamb, both of
the first year, without blemish, for a burnt offering; 9:4 Also a
bullock and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before the LORD;
and a meat offering mingled with oil: for to day the LORD will appear
unto you.

9:5 And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tabernacle
of the congregation: and all the congregation drew near and stood
before the LORD.

9:6 And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commanded that ye
should do: and the glory of the LORD shall appear unto you.

9:7 And Moses said unto Aaron, Go unto the altar, and offer thy sin
offering, and thy burnt offering, and make an atonement for thyself,
and for the people: and offer the offering of the people, and make an
atonement for them; as the LORD commanded.

9:8 Aaron therefore went unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin
offering, which was for himself.

9:9 And the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him: and he dipped
his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and
poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar: 9:10 But the fat, and
the kidneys, and the caul above the liver of the sin offering, he
burnt upon the altar; as the LORD commanded Moses.

9:11 And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire without the camp.

9:12 And he slew the burnt offering; and Aaron's sons presented unto
him the blood, which he sprinkled round about upon the altar.

9:13 And they presented the burnt offering unto him, with the pieces
thereof, and the head: and he burnt them upon the altar.

9:14 And he did wash the inwards and the legs, and burnt them upon the
burnt offering on the altar.

9:15 And he brought the people's offering, and took the goat, which
was the sin offering for the people, and slew it, and offered it for
sin, as the first.

9:16 And he brought the burnt offering, and offered it according to
the manner.

9:17 And he brought the meat offering, and took an handful thereof,
and burnt it upon the altar, beside the burnt sacrifice of the
morning.

9:18 He slew also the bullock and the ram for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron's sons presented unto
him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about, 9:19 And
the fat of the bullock and of the ram, the rump, and that which
covereth the inwards, and the kidneys, and the caul above the liver:
9:20 And they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon
the altar: 9:21 And the breasts and the right shoulder Aaron waved for
a wave offering before the LORD; as Moses commanded.

9:22 And Aaron lifted up his hand toward the people, and blessed them,
and came down from offering of the sin offering, and the burnt
offering, and peace offerings.

9:23 And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation,
and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of the LORD
appeared unto all the people.

9:24 And there came a fire out from before the LORD, and consumed upon
the altar the burnt offering and the fat: which when all the people
saw, they shouted, and fell on their faces.

10:1 And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his
censer, and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered
strange fire before the LORD, which he commanded them not.

10:2 And there went out fire from the LORD, and devoured them, and
they died before the LORD.

10:3 Then Moses said unto Aaron, This is it that the LORD spake,
saying, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh me, and before all
the people I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace.

10:4 And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the
uncle of Aaron, and said unto them, Come near, carry your brethren
from before the sanctuary out of the camp.

10:5 So they went near, and carried them in their coats out of the
camp; as Moses had said.

10:6 And Moses said unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his
sons, Uncover not your heads, neither rend your clothes; lest ye die,
and lest wrath come upon all the people: but let your brethren, the
whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which the LORD hath kindled.

10:7 And ye shall not go out from the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation, lest ye die: for the anointing oil of the LORD is upon
you. And they did according to the word of Moses.

10:8 And the LORD spake unto Aaron, saying, 10:9 Do not drink wine nor
strong drink, thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go into the
tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: it shall be a statute for
ever throughout your generations: 10:10 And that ye may put difference
between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean; 10:11 And that
ye may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the LORD
hath spoken unto them by the hand of Moses.

10:12 And Moses spake unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar,
his sons that were left, Take the meat offering that remaineth of the
offerings of the LORD made by fire, and eat it without leaven beside
the altar: for it is most holy: 10:13 And ye shall eat it in the holy
place, because it is thy due, and thy sons' due, of the sacrifices of
the LORD made by fire: for so I am commanded.

10:14 And the wave breast and heave shoulder shall ye eat in a clean
place; thou, and thy sons, and thy daughters with thee: for they be
thy due, and thy sons' due, which are given out of the sacrifices of
peace offerings of the children of Israel.

10:15 The heave shoulder and the wave breast shall they bring with the
offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave offering
before the LORD; and it shall be thine, and thy sons' with thee, by a
statute for ever; as the LORD hath commanded.

10:16 And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin offering, and,
behold, it was burnt: and he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the
sons of Aaron which were left alive, saying, 10:17 Wherefore have ye
not eaten the sin offering in the holy place, seeing it is most holy,
and God hath given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to
make atonement for them before the LORD?  10:18 Behold, the blood of
it was not brought in within the holy place: ye should indeed have
eaten it in the holy place, as I commanded.

10:19 And Aaron said unto Moses, Behold, this day have they offered
their sin offering and their burnt offering before the LORD; and such
things have befallen me: and if I had eaten the sin offering to day,
should it have been accepted in the sight of the LORD?  10:20 And when
Moses heard that, he was content.

11:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and to Aaron, saying unto them,
11:2 Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, These are the beasts
which ye shall eat among all the beasts that are on the earth.

11:3 Whatsoever parteth the hoof, and is clovenfooted, and cheweth the
cud, among the beasts, that shall ye eat.

11:4 Nevertheless these shall ye not eat of them that chew the cud, or
of them that divide the hoof: as the camel, because he cheweth the
cud, but divideth not the hoof; he is unclean unto you.

11:5 And the coney, because he cheweth the cud, but divideth not the
hoof; he is unclean unto you.

11:6 And the hare, because he cheweth the cud, but divideth not the
hoof; he is unclean unto you.

11:7 And the swine, though he divide the hoof, and be clovenfooted,
yet he cheweth not the cud; he is unclean to you.

11:8 Of their flesh shall ye not eat, and their carcase shall ye not
touch; they are unclean to you.

11:9 These shall ye eat of all that are in the waters: whatsoever hath
fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, them
shall ye eat.

11:10 And all that have not fins and scales in the seas, and in the
rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of any living thing which
is in the waters, they shall be an abomination unto you: 11:11 They
shall be even an abomination unto you; ye shall not eat of their
flesh, but ye shall have their carcases in abomination.

11:12 Whatsoever hath no fins nor scales in the waters, that shall be
an abomination unto you.

11:13 And these are they which ye shall have in abomination among the
fowls; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle,
and the ossifrage, and the ospray, 11:14 And the vulture, and the kite
after his kind; 11:15 Every raven after his kind; 11:16 And the owl,
and the night hawk, and the cuckow, and the hawk after his kind, 11:17
And the little owl, and the cormorant, and the great owl, 11:18 And
the swan, and the pelican, and the gier eagle, 11:19 And the stork,
the heron after her kind, and the lapwing, and the bat.

11:20 All fowls that creep, going upon all four, shall be an
abomination unto you.

11:21 Yet these may ye eat of every flying creeping thing that goeth
upon all four, which have legs above their feet, to leap withal upon
the earth; 11:22 Even these of them ye may eat; the locust after his
kind, and the bald locust after his kind, and the beetle after his
kind, and the grasshopper after his kind.

11:23 But all other flying creeping things, which have four feet,
shall be an abomination unto you.

11:24 And for these ye shall be unclean: whosoever toucheth the
carcase of them shall be unclean until the even.

11:25 And whosoever beareth ought of the carcase of them shall wash
his clothes, and be unclean until the even.

11:26 The carcases of every beast which divideth the hoof, and is not
clovenfooted, nor cheweth the cud, are unclean unto you: every one
that toucheth them shall be unclean.

11:27 And whatsoever goeth upon his paws, among all manner of beasts
that go on all four, those are unclean unto you: whoso toucheth their
carcase shall be unclean until the even.

11:28 And he that beareth the carcase of them shall wash his clothes,
and be unclean until the even: they are unclean unto you.

11:29 These also shall be unclean unto you among the creeping things
that creep upon the earth; the weasel, and the mouse, and the tortoise
after his kind, 11:30 And the ferret, and the chameleon, and the
lizard, and the snail, and the mole.

11:31 These are unclean to you among all that creep: whosoever doth
touch them, when they be dead, shall be unclean until the even.

11:32 And upon whatsoever any of them, when they are dead, doth fall,
it shall be unclean; whether it be any vessel of wood, or raiment, or
skin, or sack, whatsoever vessel it be, wherein any work is done, it
must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the even; so it
shall be cleansed.

11:33 And every earthen vessel, whereinto any of them falleth,
whatsoever is in it shall be unclean; and ye shall break it.

11:34 Of all meat which may be eaten, that on which such water cometh
shall be unclean: and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel
shall be unclean.

11:35 And every thing whereupon any part of their carcase falleth
shall be unclean; whether it be oven, or ranges for pots, they shall
be broken down: for they are unclean and shall be unclean unto you.

11:36 Nevertheless a fountain or pit, wherein there is plenty of
water, shall be clean: but that which toucheth their carcase shall be
unclean.

11:37 And if any part of their carcase fall upon any sowing seed which
is to be sown, it shall be clean.

11:38 But if any water be put upon the seed, and any part of their
carcase fall thereon, it shall be unclean unto you.

11:39 And if any beast, of which ye may eat, die; he that toucheth the
carcase thereof shall be unclean until the even.

11:40 And he that eateth of the carcase of it shall wash his clothes,
and be unclean until the even: he also that beareth the carcase of it
shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even.

11:41 And every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth shall be
an abomination; it shall not be eaten.

11:42 Whatsoever goeth upon the belly, and whatsoever goeth upon all
four, or whatsoever hath more feet among all creeping things that
creep upon the earth, them ye shall not eat; for they are an
abomination.

11:43 Ye shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing
that creepeth, neither shall ye make yourselves unclean with them,
that ye should be defiled thereby.

11:44 For I am the LORD your God: ye shall therefore sanctify
yourselves, and ye shall be holy; for I am holy: neither shall ye
defile yourselves with any manner of creeping thing that creepeth upon
the earth.

11:45 For I am the LORD that bringeth you up out of the land of Egypt,
to be your God: ye shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.

11:46 This is the law of the beasts, and of the fowl, and of every
living creature that moveth in the waters, and of every creature that
creepeth upon the earth: 11:47 To make a difference between the
unclean and the clean, and between the beast that may be eaten and the
beast that may not be eaten.

12:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 12:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, If a woman have conceived seed, and born a
man child: then she shall be unclean seven days; according to the days
of the separation for her infirmity shall she be unclean.

12:3 And in the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be
circumcised.

12:4 And she shall then continue in the blood of her purifying three
and thirty days; she shall touch no hallowed thing, nor come into the
sanctuary, until the days of her purifying be fulfilled.

12:5 But if she bear a maid child, then she shall be unclean two
weeks, as in her separation: and she shall continue in the blood of
her purifying threescore and six days.

12:6 And when the days of her purifying are fulfilled, for a son, or
for a daughter, she shall bring a lamb of the first year for a burnt
offering, and a young pigeon, or a turtledove, for a sin offering,
unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, unto the priest:
12:7 Who shall offer it before the LORD, and make an atonement for
her; and she shall be cleansed from the issue of her blood. This is
the law for her that hath born a male or a female.

12:8 And if she be not able to bring a lamb, then she shall bring two
turtles, or two young pigeons; the one for the burnt offering, and the
other for a sin offering: and the priest shall make an atonement for
her, and she shall be clean.

13:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, saying, 13:2 When a man
shall have in the skin of his flesh a rising, a scab, or bright spot,
and it be in the skin of his flesh like the plague of leprosy; then he
shall be brought unto Aaron the priest, or unto one of his sons the
priests: 13:3 And the priest shall look on the plague in the skin of
the flesh: and when the hair in the plague is turned white, and the
plague in sight be deeper than the skin of his flesh, it is a plague
of leprosy: and the priest shall look on him, and pronounce him
unclean.

13:4 If the bright spot be white in the skin of his flesh, and in
sight be not deeper than the skin, and the hair thereof be not turned
white; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague seven
days: 13:5 And the priest shall look on him the seventh day: and,
behold, if the plague in his sight be at a stay, and the plague spread
not in the skin; then the priest shall shut him up seven days more:
13:6 And the priest shall look on him again the seventh day: and,
behold, if the plague be somewhat dark, and the plague spread not in
the skin, the priest shall pronounce him clean: it is but a scab: and
he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.

13:7 But if the scab spread much abroad in the skin, after that he
hath been seen of the priest for his cleansing, he shall be seen of
the priest again.

13:8 And if the priest see that, behold, the scab spreadeth in the
skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a leprosy.

13:9 When the plague of leprosy is in a man, then he shall be brought
unto the priest; 13:10 And the priest shall see him: and, behold, if
the rising be white in the skin, and it have turned the hair white,
and there be quick raw flesh in the rising; 13:11 It is an old leprosy
in the skin of his flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean,
and shall not shut him up: for he is unclean.

13:12 And if a leprosy break out abroad in the skin, and the leprosy
cover all the skin of him that hath the plague from his head even to
his foot, wheresoever the priest looketh; 13:13 Then the priest shall
consider: and, behold, if the leprosy have covered all his flesh, he
shall pronounce him clean that hath the plague: it is all turned
white: he is clean.

13:14 But when raw flesh appeareth in him, he shall be unclean.

13:15 And the priest shall see the raw flesh, and pronounce him to be
unclean: for the raw flesh is unclean: it is a leprosy.

13:16 Or if the raw flesh turn again, and be changed unto white, he
shall come unto the priest; 13:17 And the priest shall see him: and,
behold, if the plague be turned into white; then the priest shall
pronounce him clean that hath the plague: he is clean.

13:18 The flesh also, in which, even in the skin thereof, was a boil,
and is healed, 13:19 And in the place of the boil there be a white
rising, or a bright spot, white, and somewhat reddish, and it be
shewed to the priest; 13:20 And if, when the priest seeth it, behold,
it be in sight lower than the skin, and the hair thereof be turned
white; the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a plague of
leprosy broken out of the boil.

13:21 But if the priest look on it, and, behold, there be no white
hairs therein, and if it be not lower than the skin, but be somewhat
dark; then the priest shall shut him up seven days: 13:22 And if it
spread much abroad in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him
unclean: it is a plague.

13:23 But if the bright spot stay in his place, and spread not, it is
a burning boil; and the priest shall pronounce him clean.

13:24 Or if there be any flesh, in the skin whereof there is a hot
burning, and the quick flesh that burneth have a white bright spot,
somewhat reddish, or white; 13:25 Then the priest shall look upon it:
and, behold, if the hair in the bright spot be turned white, and it be
in sight deeper than the skin; it is a leprosy broken out of the
burning: wherefore the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is the
plague of leprosy.

13:26 But if the priest look on it, and, behold, there be no white
hair in the bright spot, and it be no lower than the other skin, but
be somewhat dark; then the priest shall shut him up seven days: 13:27
And the priest shall look upon him the seventh day: and if it be
spread much abroad in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him
unclean: it is the plague of leprosy.

13:28 And if the bright spot stay in his place, and spread not in the
skin, but it be somewhat dark; it is a rising of the burning, and the
priest shall pronounce him clean: for it is an inflammation of the
burning.

13:29 If a man or woman have a plague upon the head or the beard;
13:30 Then the priest shall see the plague: and, behold, if it be in
sight deeper than the skin; and there be in it a yellow thin hair;
then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a dry scall, even a
leprosy upon the head or beard.

13:31 And if the priest look on the plague of the scall, and, behold,
it be not in sight deeper than the skin, and that there is no black
hair in it; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague of
the scall seven days: 13:32 And in the seventh day the priest shall
look on the plague: and, behold, if the scall spread not, and there be
in it no yellow hair, and the scall be not in sight deeper than the
skin; 13:33 He shall be shaven, but the scall shall he not shave; and
the priest shall shut up him that hath the scall seven days more:
13:34 And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the scall: and,
behold, if the scall be not spread in the skin, nor be in sight deeper
than the skin; then the priest shall pronounce him clean: and he shall
wash his clothes, and be clean.

13:35 But if the scall spread much in the skin after his cleansing;
13:36 Then the priest shall look on him: and, behold, if the scall be
spread in the skin, the priest shall not seek for yellow hair; he is
unclean.

13:37 But if the scall be in his sight at a stay, and that there is
black hair grown up therein; the scall is healed, he is clean: and the
priest shall pronounce him clean.

13:38 If a man also or a woman have in the skin of their flesh bright
spots, even white bright spots; 13:39 Then the priest shall look: and,
behold, if the bright spots in the skin of their flesh be darkish
white; it is a freckled spot that groweth in the skin; he is clean.

13:40 And the man whose hair is fallen off his head, he is bald; yet
is he clean.

13:41 And he that hath his hair fallen off from the part of his head
toward his face, he is forehead bald: yet is he clean.

13:42 And if there be in the bald head, or bald forehead, a white
reddish sore; it is a leprosy sprung up in his bald head, or his bald
forehead.

13:43 Then the priest shall look upon it: and, behold, if the rising
of the sore be white reddish in his bald head, or in his bald
forehead, as the leprosy appeareth in the skin of the flesh; 13:44 He
is a leprous man, he is unclean: the priest shall pronounce him
utterly unclean; his plague is in his head.

13:45 And the leper in whom the plague is, his clothes shall be rent,
and his head bare, and he shall put a covering upon his upper lip, and
shall cry, Unclean, unclean.

13:46 All the days wherein the plague shall be in him he shall be
defiled; he is unclean: he shall dwell alone; without the camp shall
his habitation be.

13:47 The garment also that the plague of leprosy is in, whether it be
a woollen garment, or a linen garment; 13:48 Whether it be in the
warp, or woof; of linen, or of woollen; whether in a skin, or in any
thing made of skin; 13:49 And if the plague be greenish or reddish in
the garment, or in the skin, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in
any thing of skin; it is a plague of leprosy, and shall be shewed unto
the priest: 13:50 And the priest shall look upon the plague, and shut
up it that hath the plague seven days: 13:51 And he shall look on the
plague on the seventh day: if the plague be spread in the garment,
either in the warp, or in the woof, or in a skin, or in any work that
is made of skin; the plague is a fretting leprosy; it is unclean.

13:52 He shall therefore burn that garment, whether warp or woof, in
woollen or in linen, or any thing of skin, wherein the plague is: for
it is a fretting leprosy; it shall be burnt in the fire.

13:53 And if the priest shall look, and, behold, the plague be not
spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any
thing of skin; 13:54 Then the priest shall command that they wash the
thing wherein the plague is, and he shall shut it up seven days more:
13:55 And the priest shall look on the plague, after that it is
washed: and, behold, if the plague have not changed his colour, and
the plague be not spread; it is unclean; thou shalt burn it in the
fire; it is fret inward, whether it be bare within or without.

13:56 And if the priest look, and, behold, the plague be somewhat dark
after the washing of it; then he shall rend it out of the garment, or
out of the skin, or out of the warp, or out of the woof: 13:57 And if
it appear still in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or
in any thing of skin; it is a spreading plague: thou shalt burn that
wherein the plague is with fire.

13:58 And the garment, either warp, or woof, or whatsoever thing of
skin it be, which thou shalt wash, if the plague be departed from
them, then it shall be washed the second time, and shall be clean.

13:59 This is the law of the plague of leprosy in a garment of woollen
or linen, either in the warp, or woof, or any thing of skins, to
pronounce it clean, or to pronounce it unclean.

14:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 14:2 This shall be the law
of the leper in the day of his cleansing: He shall be brought unto the
priest: 14:3 And the priest shall go forth out of the camp; and the
priest shall look, and, behold, if the plague of leprosy be healed in
the leper; 14:4 Then shall the priest command to take for him that is
to be cleansed two birds alive and clean, and cedar wood, and scarlet,
and hyssop: 14:5 And the priest shall command that one of the birds be
killed in an earthen vessel over running water: 14:6 As for the living
bird, he shall take it, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the
hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the
bird that was killed over the running water: 14:7 And he shall
sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times,
and shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird loose
into the open field.

14:8 And he that is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, and shave
off all his hair, and wash himself in water, that he may be clean: and
after that he shall come into the camp, and shall tarry abroad out of
his tent seven days.

14:9 But it shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his
hair off his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair he
shall shave off: and he shall wash his clothes, also he shall wash his
flesh in water, and he shall be clean.

14:10 And on the eighth day he shall take two he lambs without
blemish, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish, and three
tenth deals of fine flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and
one log of oil.

14:11 And the priest that maketh him clean shall present the man that
is to be made clean, and those things, before the LORD, at the door of
the tabernacle of the congregation: 14:12 And the priest shall take
one he lamb, and offer him for a trespass offering, and the log of
oil, and wave them for a wave offering before the LORD: 14:13 And he
shall slay the lamb in the place where he shall kill the sin offering
and the burnt offering, in the holy place: for as the sin offering is
the priest's, so is the trespass offering: it is most holy: 14:14 And
the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering, and
the priest shall put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is
to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the
great toe of his right foot: 14:15 And the priest shall take some of
the log of oil, and pour it into the palm of his own left hand: 14:16
And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his
left hand, and shall sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times
before the LORD: 14:17 And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand
shall the priest put upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to
be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great
toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass offering: 14:18
And the remnant of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall pour
upon the head of him that is to be cleansed: and the priest shall make
an atonement for him before the LORD.

14:19 And the priest shall offer the sin offering, and make an
atonement for him that is to be cleansed from his uncleanness; and
afterward he shall kill the burnt offering: 14:20 And the priest shall
offer the burnt offering and the meat offering upon the altar: and the
priest shall make an atonement for him, and he shall be clean.

14:21 And if he be poor, and cannot get so much; then he shall take
one lamb for a trespass offering to be waved, to make an atonement for
him, and one tenth deal of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat
offering, and a log of oil; 14:22 And two turtledoves, or two young
pigeons, such as he is able to get; and the one shall be a sin
offering, and the other a burnt offering.

14:23 And he shall bring them on the eighth day for his cleansing unto
the priest, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation,
before the LORD.

14:24 And the priest shall take the lamb of the trespass offering, and
the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering
before the LORD: 14:25 And he shall kill the lamb of the trespass
offering, and the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass
offering, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to
be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great
toe of his right foot: 14:26 And the priest shall pour of the oil into
the palm of his own left hand: 14:27 And the priest shall sprinkle
with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven
times before the LORD: 14:28 And the priest shall put of the oil that
is in his hand upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be
cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe
of his right foot, upon the place of the blood of the trespass
offering: 14:29 And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand
he shall put upon the head of him that is to be cleansed, to make an
atonement for him before the LORD.

14:30 And he shall offer the one of the turtledoves, or of the young
pigeons, such as he can get; 14:31 Even such as he is able to get, the
one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, with the
meat offering: and the priest shall make an atonement for him that is
to be cleansed before the LORD.

14:32 This is the law of him in whom is the plague of leprosy, whose
hand is not able to get that which pertaineth to his cleansing.

14:33 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 14:34 When
ye be come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a
possession, and I put the plague of leprosy in a house of the land of
your possession; 14:35 And he that owneth the house shall come and
tell the priest, saying, It seemeth to me there is as it were a plague
in the house: 14:36 Then the priest shall command that they empty the
house, before the priest go into it to see the plague, that all that
is in the house be not made unclean: and afterward the priest shall go
in to see the house: 14:37 And he shall look on the plague, and,
behold, if the plague be in the walls of the house with hollow
strakes, greenish or reddish, which in sight are lower than the wall;
14:38 Then the priest shall go out of the house to the door of the
house, and shut up the house seven days: 14:39 And the priest shall
come again the seventh day, and shall look: and, behold, if the plague
be spread in the walls of the house; 14:40 Then the priest shall
command that they take away the stones in which the plague is, and
they shall cast them into an unclean place without the city: 14:41 And
he shall cause the house to be scraped within round about, and they
shall pour out the dust that they scrape off without the city into an
unclean place: 14:42 And they shall take other stones, and put them in
the place of those stones; and he shall take other morter, and shall
plaister the house.

14:43 And if the plague come again, and break out in the house, after
that he hath taken away the stones, and after he hath scraped the
house, and after it is plaistered; 14:44 Then the priest shall come
and look, and, behold, if the plague be spread in the house, it is a
fretting leprosy in the house; it is unclean.

14:45 And he shall break down the house, the stones of it, and the
timber thereof, and all the morter of the house; and he shall carry
them forth out of the city into an unclean place.

14:46 Moreover he that goeth into the house all the while that it is
shut up shall be unclean until the even.

14:47 And he that lieth in the house shall wash his clothes; and he
that eateth in the house shall wash his clothes.

14:48 And if the priest shall come in, and look upon it, and, behold,
the plague hath not spread in the house, after the house was
plaistered: then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, because
the plague is healed.

14:49 And he shall take to cleanse the house two birds, and cedar
wood, and scarlet, and hyssop: 14:50 And he shall kill the one of the
birds in an earthen vessel over running water: 14:51 And he shall take
the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird,
and dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water,
and sprinkle the house seven times: 14:52 And he shall cleanse the
house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, and with
the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and
with the scarlet: 14:53 But he shall let go the living bird out of the
city into the open fields, and make an atonement for the house: and it
shall be clean.

14:54 This is the law for all manner of plague of leprosy, and scall,
14:55 And for the leprosy of a garment, and of a house, 14:56 And for
a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot: 14:57 To teach when
it is unclean, and when it is clean: this is the law of leprosy.

15:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and to Aaron, saying, 15:2 Speak
unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When any man hath a
running issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he is unclean.

15:3 And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh
run with his issue, or his flesh be stopped from his issue, it is his
uncleanness.

15:4 Every bed, whereon he lieth that hath the issue, is unclean: and
every thing, whereon he sitteth, shall be unclean.

15:5 And whosoever toucheth his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe
himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:6 And he that sitteth on any thing whereon he sat that hath the
issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be
unclean until the even.

15:7 And he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the issue shall
wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:8 And if he that hath the issue spit upon him that is clean; then
he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean
until the even.

15:9 And what saddle soever he rideth upon that hath the issue shall
be unclean.

15:10 And whosoever toucheth any thing that was under him shall be
unclean until the even: and he that beareth any of those things shall
wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:11 And whomsoever he toucheth that hath the issue, and hath not
rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe
himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:12 And the vessel of earth, that he toucheth which hath the issue,
shall be broken: and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.

15:13 And when he that hath an issue is cleansed of his issue; then he
shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his
clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.

15:14 And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtledoves, or
two young pigeons, and come before the LORD unto the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, and give them unto the priest: 15:15
And the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin offering, and the
other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for
him before the LORD for his issue.

15:16 And if any man's seed of copulation go out from him, then he
shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:17 And every garment, and every skin, whereon is the seed of
copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the even.

15:18 The woman also with whom man shall lie with seed of copulation,
they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:19 And if a woman have an issue, and her issue in her flesh be
blood, she shall be put apart seven days: and whosoever toucheth her
shall be unclean until the even.

15:20 And every thing that she lieth upon in her separation shall be
unclean: every thing also that she sitteth upon shall be unclean.

15:21 And whosoever toucheth her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe
himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:22 And whosoever toucheth any thing that she sat upon shall wash
his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:23 And if it be on her bed, or on any thing whereon she sitteth,
when he toucheth it, he shall be unclean until the even.

15:24 And if any man lie with her at all, and her flowers be upon him,
he shall be unclean seven days; and all the bed whereon he lieth shall
be unclean.

15:25 And if a woman have an issue of her blood many days out of the
time of her separation, or if it run beyond the time of her
separation; all the days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as
the days of her separation: she shall be unclean.

15:26 Every bed whereon she lieth all the days of her issue shall be
unto her as the bed of her separation: and whatsoever she sitteth upon
shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her separation.

15:27 And whosoever toucheth those things shall be unclean, and shall
wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:28 But if she be cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to
herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.

15:29 And on the eighth day she shall take unto her two turtles, or
two young pigeons, and bring them unto the priest, to the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation.

15:30 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the
other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for
her before the LORD for the issue of her uncleanness.

15:31 Thus shall ye separate the children of Israel from their
uncleanness; that they die not in their uncleanness, when they defile
my tabernacle that is among them.

15:32 This is the law of him that hath an issue, and of him whose seed
goeth from him, and is defiled therewith; 15:33 And of her that is
sick of her flowers, and of him that hath an issue, of the man, and of
the woman, and of him that lieth with her that is unclean.

16:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses after the death of the two sons of
Aaron, when they offered before the LORD, and died; 16:2 And the LORD
said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all
times into the holy place within the vail before the mercy seat, which
is upon the ark; that he die not: for I will appear in the cloud upon
the mercy seat.

16:3 Thus shall Aaron come into the holy place: with a young bullock
for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering.

16:4 He shall put on the holy linen coat, and he shall have the linen
breeches upon his flesh, and shall be girded with a linen girdle, and
with the linen mitre shall he be attired: these are holy garments;
therefore shall he wash his flesh in water, and so put them on.

16:5 And he shall take of the congregation of the children of Israel
two kids of the goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt
offering.

16:6 And Aaron shall offer his bullock of the sin offering, which is
for himself, and make an atonement for himself, and for his house.

16:7 And he shall take the two goats, and present them before the LORD
at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

16:8 And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats; one lot for the
LORD, and the other lot for the scapegoat.

16:9 And Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the LORD's lot fell,
and offer him for a sin offering.

16:10 But the goat, on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat, shall
be presented alive before the LORD, to make an atonement with him, and
to let him go for a scapegoat into the wilderness.

16:11 And Aaron shall bring the bullock of the sin offering, which is
for himself, and shall make an atonement for himself, and for his
house, and shall kill the bullock of the sin offering which is for
himself: 16:12 And he shall take a censer full of burning coals of
fire from off the altar before the LORD, and his hands full of sweet
incense beaten small, and bring it within the vail: 16:13 And he shall
put the incense upon the fire before the LORD, that the cloud of the
incense may cover the mercy seat that is upon the testimony, that he
die not: 16:14 And he shall take of the blood of the bullock, and
sprinkle it with his finger upon the mercy seat eastward; and before
the mercy seat shall he sprinkle of the blood with his finger seven
times.

16:15 Then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering, that is for the
people, and bring his blood within the vail, and do with that blood as
he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy
seat, and before the mercy seat: 16:16 And he shall make an atonement
for the holy place, because of the uncleanness of the children of
Israel, and because of their transgressions in all their sins: and so
shall he do for the tabernacle of the congregation, that remaineth
among them in the midst of their uncleanness.

16:17 And there shall be no man in the tabernacle of the congregation
when he goeth in to make an atonement in the holy place, until he come
out, and have made an atonement for himself, and for his household,
and for all the congregation of Israel.

16:18 And he shall go out unto the altar that is before the LORD, and
make an atonement for it; and shall take of the blood of the bullock,
and of the blood of the goat, and put it upon the horns of the altar
round about.

16:19 And he shall sprinkle of the blood upon it with his finger seven
times, and cleanse it, and hallow it from the uncleanness of the
children of Israel.

16:20 And when he hath made an end of reconciling the holy place, and
the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar, he shall bring the
live goat: 16:21 And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of
the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children
of Israel, and all their transgressions in all their sins, putting
them upon the head of the goat, and shall send him away by the hand of
a fit man into the wilderness: 16:22 And the goat shall bear upon him
all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited: and he shall let go
the goat in the wilderness.

16:23 And Aaron shall come into the tabernacle of the congregation,
and shall put off the linen garments, which he put on when he went
into the holy place, and shall leave them there: 16:24 And he shall
wash his flesh with water in the holy place, and put on his garments,
and come forth, and offer his burnt offering, and the burnt offering
of the people, and make an atonement for himself, and for the people.

16:25 And the fat of the sin offering shall he burn upon the altar.

16:26 And he that let go the goat for the scapegoat shall wash his
clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward come into the
camp.

16:27 And the bullock for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin
offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy
place, shall one carry forth without the camp; and they shall burn in
the fire their skins, and their flesh, and their dung.

16:28 And he that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his
flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp.

16:29 And this shall be a statute for ever unto you: that in the
seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, ye shall afflict your
souls, and do no work at all, whether it be one of your own country,
or a stranger that sojourneth among you: 16:30 For on that day shall
the priest make an atonement for you, to cleanse you, that ye may be
clean from all your sins before the LORD.

16:31 It shall be a sabbath of rest unto you, and ye shall afflict
your souls, by a statute for ever.

16:32 And the priest, whom he shall anoint, and whom he shall
consecrate to minister in the priest's office in his father's stead,
shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linen clothes, even the
holy garments: 16:33 And he shall make an atonement for the holy
sanctuary, and he shall make an atonement for the tabernacle of the
congregation, and for the altar, and he shall make an atonement for
the priests, and for all the people of the congregation.

16:34 And this shall be an everlasting statute unto you, to make an
atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year.
And he did as the LORD commanded Moses.

17:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 17:2 Speak unto Aaron, and
unto his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them;
This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded, saying, 17:3 What man
soever there be of the house of Israel, that killeth an ox, or lamb,
or goat, in the camp, or that killeth it out of the camp, 17:4 And
bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation,
to offer an offering unto the LORD before the tabernacle of the LORD;
blood shall be imputed unto that man; he hath shed blood; and that man
shall be cut off from among his people: 17:5 To the end that the
children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they offer in the
open field, even that they may bring them unto the LORD, unto the door
of the tabernacle of the congregation, unto the priest, and offer them
for peace offerings unto the LORD.

17:6 And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of the
LORD at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and burn the
fat for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

17:7 And they shall no more offer their sacrifices unto devils, after
whom they have gone a whoring. This shall be a statute for ever unto
them throughout their generations.

17:8 And thou shalt say unto them, Whatsoever man there be of the
house of Israel, or of the strangers which sojourn among you, that
offereth a burnt offering or sacrifice, 17:9 And bringeth it not unto
the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer it unto the
LORD; even that man shall be cut off from among his people.

17:10 And whatsoever man there be of the house of Israel, or of the
strangers that sojourn among you, that eateth any manner of blood; I
will even set my face against that soul that eateth blood, and will
cut him off from among his people.

17:11 For the life of the flesh is in the blood: and I have given it
to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls: for it is
the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul.

17:12 Therefore I said unto the children of Israel, No soul of you
shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger that sojourneth among you
eat blood.

17:13 And whatsoever man there be of the children of Israel, or of the
strangers that sojourn among you, which hunteth and catcheth any beast
or fowl that may be eaten; he shall even pour out the blood thereof,
and cover it with dust.

17:14 For it is the life of all flesh; the blood of it is for the life
thereof: therefore I said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall eat
the blood of no manner of flesh: for the life of all flesh is the
blood thereof: whosoever eateth it shall be cut off.

17:15 And every soul that eateth that which died of itself, or that
which was torn with beasts, whether it be one of your own country, or
a stranger, he shall both wash his clothes, and bathe himself in
water, and be unclean until the even: then shall he be clean.

17:16 But if he wash them not, nor bathe his flesh; then he shall bear
his iniquity.

18:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 18:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, I am the LORD your God.

18:3 After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein ye dwelt, shall ye
not do: and after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring
you, shall ye not do: neither shall ye walk in their ordinances.

18:4 Ye shall do my judgments, and keep mine ordinances, to walk
therein: I am the LORD your God.

18:5 Ye shall therefore keep my statutes, and my judgments: which if a
man do, he shall live in them: I am the LORD.

18:6 None of you shall approach to any that is near of kin to him, to
uncover their nakedness: I am the LORD.

18:7 The nakedness of thy father, or the nakedness of thy mother,
shalt thou not uncover: she is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her
nakedness.

18:8 The nakedness of thy father's wife shalt thou not uncover: it is
thy father's nakedness.

18:9 The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or
daughter of thy mother, whether she be born at home, or born abroad,
even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover.

18:10 The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or of thy daughter's
daughter, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover: for theirs is
thine own nakedness.

18:11 The nakedness of thy father's wife's daughter, begotten of thy
father, she is thy sister, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

18:12 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's sister: she
is thy father's near kinswoman.

18:13 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister: for
she is thy mother's near kinswoman.

18:14 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's brother,
thou shalt not approach to his wife: she is thine aunt.

18:15 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter in law: she
is thy son's wife; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

18:16 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy brother's wife: it
is thy brother's nakedness.

18:17 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her
daughter, neither shalt thou take her son's daughter, or her
daughter's daughter, to uncover her nakedness; for they are her near
kinswomen: it is wickedness.

18:18 Neither shalt thou take a wife to her sister, to vex her, to
uncover her nakedness, beside the other in her life time.

18:19 Also thou shalt not approach unto a woman to uncover her
nakedness, as long as she is put apart for her uncleanness.

18:20 Moreover thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbour's wife,
to defile thyself with her.

18:21 And thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to
Molech, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.

18:22 Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is
abomination.

18:23 Neither shalt thou lie with any beast to defile thyself
therewith: neither shall any woman stand before a beast to lie down
thereto: it is confusion.

18:24 Defile not ye yourselves in any of these things: for in all
these the nations are defiled which I cast out before you: 18:25 And
the land is defiled: therefore I do visit the iniquity thereof upon
it, and the land itself vomiteth out her inhabitants.

18:26 Ye shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, and shall
not commit any of these abominations; neither any of your own nation,
nor any stranger that sojourneth among you: 18:27 (For all these
abominations have the men of the land done, which were before you, and
the land is defiled;) 18:28 That the land spue not you out also, when
ye defile it, as it spued out the nations that were before you.

18:29 For whosoever shall commit any of these abominations, even the
souls that commit them shall be cut off from among their people.

18:30 Therefore shall ye keep mine ordinance, that ye commit not any
one of these abominable customs, which were committed before you, and
that ye defile not yourselves therein: I am the LORD your God.

19:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 19:2 Speak unto all the
congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be
holy: for I the LORD your God am holy.

19:3 Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father, and keep my
sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.

19:4 Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am
the LORD your God.

19:5 And if ye offer a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD, ye
shall offer it at your own will.

19:6 It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow:
and if ought remain until the third day, it shall be burnt in the
fire.

19:7 And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is abominable; it
shall not be accepted.

19:8 Therefore every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity,
because he hath profaned the hallowed thing of the LORD: and that soul
shall be cut off from among his people.

19:9 And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly
reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings
of thy harvest.

19:10 And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather
every grape of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and
stranger: I am the LORD your God.

19:11 Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to
another.

19:12 And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, neither shalt thou
profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.

19:13 Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbour, neither rob him: the wages
of him that is hired shall not abide with thee all night until the
morning.

19:14 Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before
the blind, but shalt fear thy God: I am the LORD.

19:15 Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: thou shalt not
respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty:
but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbour.

19:16 Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people:
neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbour; I am the
LORD.

19:17 Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart: thou shalt in
any wise rebuke thy neighbour, and not suffer sin upon him.

19:18 Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children
of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I am the
LORD.

19:19 Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender
with a diverse kind: thou shalt not sow thy field with mingled seed:
neither shall a garment mingled of linen and woollen come upon thee.

19:20 And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, that is a bondmaid,
betrothed to an husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given
her; she shall be scourged; they shall not be put to death, because
she was not free.

19:21 And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, unto the
door of the tabernacle of the congregation, even a ram for a trespass
offering.

19:22 And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of
the trespass offering before the LORD for his sin which he hath done:
and the sin which he hath done shall be forgiven him.

19:23 And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all
manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit thereof as
uncircumcised: three years shall it be as uncircumcised unto you: it
shall not be eaten of.

19:24 But in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy to
praise the LORD withal.

19:25 And in the fifth year shall ye eat of the fruit thereof, that it
may yield unto you the increase thereof: I am the LORD your God.

19:26 Ye shall not eat any thing with the blood: neither shall ye use
enchantment, nor observe times.

19:27 Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou
mar the corners of thy beard.

19:28 Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor
print any marks upon you: I am the LORD.

19:29 Do not prostitute thy daughter, to cause her to be a whore; lest
the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness.

19:30 Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the
LORD.

19:31 Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after
wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God.

19:32 Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honour the face of
the old man, and fear thy God: I am the LORD.

19:33 And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not
vex him.

19:34 But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be unto you as one
born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were
strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

19:35 Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in meteyard, in
weight, or in measure.

19:36 Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall
ye have: I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of
Egypt.

19:37 Therefore shall ye observe all my statutes, and all my
judgments, and do them: I am the LORD.

20:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 20:2 Again, thou shalt say
to the children of Israel, Whosoever he be of the children of Israel,
or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, that giveth any of his
seed unto Molech; he shall surely be put to death: the people of the
land shall stone him with stones.

20:3 And I will set my face against that man, and will cut him off
from among his people; because he hath given of his seed unto Molech,
to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my holy name.

20:4 And if the people of the land do any ways hide their eyes from
the man, when he giveth of his seed unto Molech, and kill him not:
20:5 Then I will set my face against that man, and against his family,
and will cut him off, and all that go a whoring after him, to commit
whoredom with Molech, from among their people.

20:6 And the soul that turneth after such as have familiar spirits,
and after wizards, to go a whoring after them, I will even set my face
against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people.

20:7 Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be ye holy: for I am the LORD
your God.

20:8 And ye shall keep my statutes, and do them: I am the LORD which
sanctify you.

20:9 For every one that curseth his father or his mother shall be
surely put to death: he hath cursed his father or his mother; his
blood shall be upon him.

20:10 And the man that committeth adultery with another man's wife,
even he that committeth adultery with his neighbour's wife, the
adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.

20:11 And the man that lieth with his father's wife hath uncovered his
father's nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their
blood shall be upon them.

20:12 And if a man lie with his daughter in law, both of them shall
surely be put to death: they have wrought confusion; their blood shall
be upon them.

20:13 If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both
of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to
death; their blood shall be upon them.

20:14 And if a man take a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they
shall be burnt with fire, both he and they; that there be no
wickedness among you.

20:15 And if a man lie with a beast, he shall surely be put to death:
and ye shall slay the beast.

20:16 And if a woman approach unto any beast, and lie down thereto,
thou shalt kill the woman, and the beast: they shall surely be put to
death; their blood shall be upon them.

20:17 And if a man shall take his sister, his father's daughter, or
his mother's daughter, and see her nakedness, and she see his
nakedness; it is a wicked thing; and they shall be cut off in the
sight of their people: he hath uncovered his sister's nakedness; he
shall bear his iniquity.

20:18 And if a man shall lie with a woman having her sickness, and
shall uncover her nakedness; he hath discovered her fountain, and she
hath uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shall be
cut off from among their people.

20:19 And thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister,
nor of thy father's sister: for he uncovereth his near kin: they shall
bear their iniquity.

20:20 And if a man shall lie with his uncle's wife, he hath uncovered
his uncle's nakedness: they shall bear their sin; they shall die
childless.

20:21 And if a man shall take his brother's wife, it is an unclean
thing: he hath uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be
childless.

20:22 Ye shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all my judgments,
and do them: that the land, whither I bring you to dwell therein, spue
you not out.

20:23 And ye shall not walk in the manners of the nation, which I cast
out before you: for they committed all these things, and therefore I
abhorred them.

20:24 But I have said unto you, Ye shall inherit their land, and I
will give it unto you to possess it, a land that floweth with milk and
honey: I am the LORD your God, which have separated you from other
people.

20:25 Ye shall therefore put difference between clean beasts and
unclean, and between unclean fowls and clean: and ye shall not make
your souls abominable by beast, or by fowl, or by any manner of living
thing that creepeth on the ground, which I have separated from you as
unclean.

20:26 And ye shall be holy unto me: for I the LORD am holy, and have
severed you from other people, that ye should be mine.

20:27 A man also or woman that hath a familiar spirit, or that is a
wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with
stones: their blood shall be upon them.

21:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Speak unto the priests the sons of
Aaron, and say unto them, There shall none be defiled for the dead
among his people: 21:2 But for his kin, that is near unto him, that
is, for his mother, and for his father, and for his son, and for his
daughter, and for his brother.

21:3 And for his sister a virgin, that is nigh unto him, which hath
had no husband; for her may he be defiled.

21:4 But he shall not defile himself, being a chief man among his
people, to profane himself.

21:5 They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they
shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any cuttings in their
flesh.

21:6 They shall be holy unto their God, and not profane the name of
their God: for the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and the bread
of their God, they do offer: therefore they shall be holy.

21:7 They shall not take a wife that is a whore, or profane; neither
shall they take a woman put away from her husband: for he is holy unto
his God.

21:8 Thou shalt sanctify him therefore; for he offereth the bread of
thy God: he shall be holy unto thee: for I the LORD, which sanctify
you, am holy.

21:9 And the daughter of any priest, if she profane herself by playing
the whore, she profaneth her father: she shall be burnt with fire.

21:10 And he that is the high priest among his brethren, upon whose
head the anointing oil was poured, and that is consecrated to put on
the garments, shall not uncover his head, nor rend his clothes; 21:11
Neither shall he go in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his
father, or for his mother; 21:12 Neither shall he go out of the
sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the
anointing oil of his God is upon him: I am the LORD.

21:13 And he shall take a wife in her virginity.

21:14 A widow, or a divorced woman, or profane, or an harlot, these
shall he not take: but he shall take a virgin of his own people to
wife.

21:15 Neither shall he profane his seed among his people: for I the
LORD do sanctify him.

21:16 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 21:17 Speak unto Aaron,
saying, Whosoever he be of thy seed in their generations that hath any
blemish, let him not approach to offer the bread of his God.

21:18 For whatsoever man he be that hath a blemish, he shall not
approach: a blind man, or a lame, or he that hath a flat nose, or any
thing superfluous, 21:19 Or a man that is brokenfooted, or
brokenhanded, 21:20 Or crookbackt, or a dwarf, or that hath a blemish
in his eye, or be scurvy, or scabbed, or hath his stones broken; 21:21
No man that hath a blemish of the seed of Aaron the priest shall come
nigh to offer the offerings of the LORD made by fire: he hath a
blemish; he shall not come nigh to offer the bread of his God.

21:22 He shall eat the bread of his God, both of the most holy, and of
the holy.

21:23 Only he shall not go in unto the vail, nor come nigh unto the
altar, because he hath a blemish; that he profane not my sanctuaries:
for I the LORD do sanctify them.

21:24 And Moses told it unto Aaron, and to his sons, and unto all the
children of Israel.

22:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 22:2 Speak unto Aaron and
to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the
children of Israel, and that they profane not my holy name in those
things which they hallow unto me: I am the LORD.

22:3 Say unto them, Whosoever he be of all your seed among your
generations, that goeth unto the holy things, which the children of
Israel hallow unto the LORD, having his uncleanness upon him, that
soul shall be cut off from my presence: I am the LORD.

22:4 What man soever of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or hath a
running issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he be clean.
And whoso toucheth any thing that is unclean by the dead, or a man
whose seed goeth from him; 22:5 Or whosoever toucheth any creeping
thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may take
uncleanness, whatsoever uncleanness he hath; 22:6 The soul which hath
touched any such shall be unclean until even, and shall not eat of the
holy things, unless he wash his flesh with water.

22:7 And when the sun is down, he shall be clean, and shall afterward
eat of the holy things; because it is his food.

22:8 That which dieth of itself, or is torn with beasts, he shall not
eat to defile himself therewith; I am the LORD.

22:9 They shall therefore keep mine ordinance, lest they bear sin for
it, and die therefore, if they profane it: I the LORD do sanctify
them.

22:10 There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing: a sojourner of
the priest, or an hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing.

22:11 But if the priest buy any soul with his money, he shall eat of
it, and he that is born in his house: they shall eat of his meat.

22:12 If the priest's daughter also be married unto a stranger, she
may not eat of an offering of the holy things.

22:13 But if the priest's daughter be a widow, or divorced, and have
no child, and is returned unto her father's house, as in her youth,
she shall eat of her father's meat: but there shall be no stranger eat
thereof.

22:14 And if a man eat of the holy thing unwittingly, then he shall
put the fifth part thereof unto it, and shall give it unto the priest
with the holy thing.

22:15 And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of
Israel, which they offer unto the LORD; 22:16 Or suffer them to bear
the iniquity of trespass, when they eat their holy things: for I the
LORD do sanctify them.

22:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 22:18 Speak unto Aaron,
and to his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto
them, Whatsoever he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers in
Israel, that will offer his oblation for all his vows, and for all his
freewill offerings, which they will offer unto the LORD for a burnt
offering; 22:19 Ye shall offer at your own will a male without
blemish, of the beeves, of the sheep, or of the goats.

22:20 But whatsoever hath a blemish, that shall ye not offer: for it
shall not be acceptable for you.

22:21 And whosoever offereth a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the
LORD to accomplish his vow, or a freewill offering in beeves or sheep,
it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.

22:22 Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scurvy, or
scabbed, ye shall not offer these unto the LORD, nor make an offering
by fire of them upon the altar unto the LORD.

22:23 Either a bullock or a lamb that hath any thing superfluous or
lacking in his parts, that mayest thou offer for a freewill offering;
but for a vow it shall not be accepted.

22:24 Ye shall not offer unto the LORD that which is bruised, or
crushed, or broken, or cut; neither shall ye make any offering thereof
in your land.

22:25 Neither from a stranger's hand shall ye offer the bread of your
God of any of these; because their corruption is in them, and
blemishes be in them: they shall not be accepted for you.

22:26 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 22:27 When a bullock, or
a sheep, or a goat, is brought forth, then it shall be seven days
under the dam; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be
accepted for an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

22:28 And whether it be cow, or ewe, ye shall not kill it and her
young both in one day.

22:29 And when ye will offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving unto the
LORD, offer it at your own will.

22:30 On the same day it shall be eaten up; ye shall leave none of it
until the morrow: I am the LORD.

22:31 Therefore shall ye keep my commandments, and do them: I am the
LORD.

22:32 Neither shall ye profane my holy name; but I will be hallowed
among the children of Israel: I am the LORD which hallow you, 22:33
That brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the
LORD.

23:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 23:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, Concerning the feasts of the
LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are
my feasts.

23:3 Six days shall work be done: but the seventh day is the sabbath
of rest, an holy convocation; ye shall do no work therein: it is the
sabbath of the LORD in all your dwellings.

23:4 These are the feasts of the LORD, even holy convocations, which
ye shall proclaim in their seasons.

23:5 In the fourteenth day of the first month at even is the LORD's
passover.

23:6 And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of
unleavened bread unto the LORD: seven days ye must eat unleavened
bread.

23:7 In the first day ye shall have an holy convocation: ye shall do
no servile work therein.

23:8 But ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD seven
days: in the seventh day is an holy convocation: ye shall do no
servile work therein.

23:9 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 23:10 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land
which I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye
shall bring a sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest unto the
priest: 23:11 And he shall wave the sheaf before the LORD, to be
accepted for you: on the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall
wave it.

23:12 And ye shall offer that day when ye wave the sheaf an he lamb
without blemish of the first year for a burnt offering unto the LORD.

23:13 And the meat offering thereof shall be two tenth deals of fine
flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire unto the LORD for a
sweet savour: and the drink offering thereof shall be of wine, the
fourth part of an hin.

23:14 And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched corn, nor green
ears, until the selfsame day that ye have brought an offering unto
your God: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations
in all your dwellings.

23:15 And ye shall count unto you from the morrow after the sabbath,
from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave offering; seven
sabbaths shall be complete: 23:16 Even unto the morrow after the
seventh sabbath shall ye number fifty days; and ye shall offer a new
meat offering unto the LORD.

23:17 Ye shall bring out of your habitations two wave loaves of two
tenth deals; they shall be of fine flour; they shall be baken with
leaven; they are the firstfruits unto the LORD.

23:18 And ye shall offer with the bread seven lambs without blemish of
the first year, and one young bullock, and two rams: they shall be for
a burnt offering unto the LORD, with their meat offering, and their
drink offerings, even an offering made by fire, of sweet savour unto
the LORD.

23:19 Then ye shall sacrifice one kid of the goats for a sin offering,
and two lambs of the first year for a sacrifice of peace offerings.

23:20 And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the firstfruits
for a wave offering before the LORD, with the two lambs: they shall be
holy to the LORD for the priest.

23:21 And ye shall proclaim on the selfsame day, that it may be an
holy convocation unto you: ye shall do no servile work therein: it
shall be a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your
generations.

23:22 And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not make
clean riddance of the corners of thy field when thou reapest, neither
shalt thou gather any gleaning of thy harvest: thou shalt leave them
unto the poor, and to the stranger: I am the LORD your God.

23:23 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 23:24 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, in the first day of
the month, shall ye have a sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets,
an holy convocation.

23:25 Ye shall do no servile work therein: but ye shall offer an
offering made by fire unto the LORD.

23:26 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 23:27 Also on the tenth
day of this seventh month there shall be a day of atonement: it shall
be an holy convocation unto you; and ye shall afflict your souls, and
offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

23:28 And ye shall do no work in that same day: for it is a day of
atonement, to make an atonement for you before the LORD your God.

23:29 For whatsoever soul it be that shall not be afflicted in that
same day, he shall be cut off from among his people.

23:30 And whatsoever soul it be that doeth any work in that same day,
the same soul will I destroy from among his people.

23:31 Ye shall do no manner of work: it shall be a statute for ever
throughout your generations in all your dwellings.

23:32 It shall be unto you a sabbath of rest, and ye shall afflict
your souls: in the ninth day of the month at even, from even unto
even, shall ye celebrate your sabbath.

23:33 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 23:34 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of this seventh month
shall be the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto the LORD.

23:35 On the first day shall be an holy convocation: ye shall do no
servile work therein.

23:36 Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the
LORD: on the eighth day shall be an holy convocation unto you; and ye
shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD: it is a solemn
assembly; and ye shall do no servile work therein.

23:37 These are the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be
holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD, a
burnt offering, and a meat offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings,
every thing upon his day: 23:38 Beside the sabbaths of the LORD, and
beside your gifts, and beside all your vows, and beside all your
freewill offerings, which ye give unto the LORD.

23:39 Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have
gathered in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD
seven days: on the first day shall be a sabbath, and on the eighth day
shall be a sabbath.

23:40 And ye shall take you on the first day the boughs of goodly
trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and
willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before the LORD your God
seven days.

23:41 And ye shall keep it a feast unto the LORD seven days in the
year.

It shall be a statute for ever in your generations: ye shall celebrate
it in the seventh month.

23:42 Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are Israelites
born shall dwell in booths: 23:43 That your generations may know that
I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them
out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

23:44 And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the feasts of the
LORD.

24:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 24:2 Command the children
of Israel, that they bring unto thee pure oil olive beaten for the
light, to cause the lamps to burn continually.

24:3 Without the vail of the testimony, in the tabernacle of the
congregation, shall Aaron order it from the evening unto the morning
before the LORD continually: it shall be a statute for ever in your
generations.

24:4 He shall order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before the
LORD continually.

24:5 And thou shalt take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes thereof:
two tenth deals shall be in one cake.

24:6 And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure
table before the LORD.

24:7 And thou shalt put pure frankincense upon each row, that it may
be on the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire unto the
LORD.

24:8 Every sabbath he shall set it in order before the LORD
continually, being taken from the children of Israel by an everlasting
covenant.

24:9 And it shall be Aaron's and his sons'; and they shall eat it in
the holy place: for it is most holy unto him of the offerings of the
LORD made by fire by a perpetual statute.

24:10 And the son of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an
Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel: and this son of the
Israelitish woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp;
24:11 And the Israelitish woman's son blasphemed the name of the Lord,
and cursed. And they brought him unto Moses: (and his mother's name
was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan:) 24:12 And
they put him in ward, that the mind of the LORD might be shewed them.

24:13 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 24:14 Bring forth him
that hath cursed without the camp; and let all that heard him lay
their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him.

24:15 And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying,
Whosoever curseth his God shall bear his sin.

24:16 And he that blasphemeth the name of the LORD, he shall surely be
put to death, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him: as
well the stranger, as he that is born in the land, when he blasphemeth
the name of the Lord, shall be put to death.

24:17 And he that killeth any man shall surely be put to death.

24:18 And he that killeth a beast shall make it good; beast for beast.

24:19 And if a man cause a blemish in his neighbour; as he hath done,
so shall it be done to him; 24:20 Breach for breach, eye for eye,
tooth for tooth: as he hath caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be
done to him again.

24:21 And he that killeth a beast, he shall restore it: and he that
killeth a man, he shall be put to death.

24:22 Ye shall have one manner of law, as well for the stranger, as
for one of your own country: for I am the LORD your God.

24:23 And Moses spake to the children of Israel, that they should
bring forth him that had cursed out of the camp, and stone him with
stones. And the children of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses.

25:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses in mount Sinai, saying, 25:2 Speak
unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the
land which I give you, then shall the land keep a sabbath unto the
LORD.

25:3 Six years thou shalt sow thy field, and six years thou shalt
prune thy vineyard, and gather in the fruit thereof; 25:4 But in the
seventh year shall be a sabbath of rest unto the land, a sabbath for
the LORD: thou shalt neither sow thy field, nor prune thy vineyard.

25:5 That which groweth of its own accord of thy harvest thou shalt
not reap, neither gather the grapes of thy vine undressed: for it is a
year of rest unto the land.

25:6 And the sabbath of the land shall be meat for you; for thee, and
for thy servant, and for thy maid, and for thy hired servant, and for
thy stranger that sojourneth with thee.

25:7 And for thy cattle, and for the beast that are in thy land, shall
all the increase thereof be meat.

25:8 And thou shalt number seven sabbaths of years unto thee, seven
times seven years; and the space of the seven sabbaths of years shall
be unto thee forty and nine years.

25:9 Then shalt thou cause the trumpet of the jubile to sound on the
tenth day of the seventh month, in the day of atonement shall ye make
the trumpet sound throughout all your land.

25:10 And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty
throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof: it shall be
a jubile unto you; and ye shall return every man unto his possession,
and ye shall return every man unto his family.

25:11 A jubile shall that fiftieth year be unto you: ye shall not sow,
neither reap that which groweth of itself in it, nor gather the grapes
in it of thy vine undressed.

25:12 For it is the jubile; it shall be holy unto you: ye shall eat
the increase thereof out of the field.

25:13 In the year of this jubile ye shall return every man unto his
possession.

25:14 And if thou sell ought unto thy neighbour, or buyest ought of
thy neighbour's hand, ye shall not oppress one another: 25:15
According to the number of years after the jubile thou shalt buy of
thy neighbour, and according unto the number of years of the fruits he
shall sell unto thee: 25:16 According to the multitude of years thou
shalt increase the price thereof, and according to the fewness of
years thou shalt diminish the price of it: for according to the number
of the years of the fruits doth he sell unto thee.

25:17 Ye shall not therefore oppress one another; but thou shalt fear
thy God:for I am the LORD your God.

25:18 Wherefore ye shall do my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do
them; and ye shall dwell in the land in safety.

25:19 And the land shall yield her fruit, and ye shall eat your fill,
and dwell therein in safety.

25:20 And if ye shall say, What shall we eat the seventh year? behold,
we shall not sow, nor gather in our increase: 25:21 Then I will
command my blessing upon you in the sixth year, and it shall bring
forth fruit for three years.

25:22 And ye shall sow the eighth year, and eat yet of old fruit until
the ninth year; until her fruits come in ye shall eat of the old
store.

25:23 The land shall not be sold for ever: for the land is mine, for
ye are strangers and sojourners with me.

25:24 And in all the land of your possession ye shall grant a
redemption for the land.

25:25 If thy brother be waxen poor, and hath sold away some of his
possession, and if any of his kin come to redeem it, then shall he
redeem that which his brother sold.

25:26 And if the man have none to redeem it, and himself be able to
redeem it; 25:27 Then let him count the years of the sale thereof, and
restore the overplus unto the man to whom he sold it; that he may
return unto his possession.

25:28 But if he be not able to restore it to him, then that which is
sold shall remain in the hand of him that hath bought it until the
year of jubile: and in the jubile it shall go out, and he shall return
unto his possession.

25:29 And if a man sell a dwelling house in a walled city, then he may
redeem it within a whole year after it is sold; within a full year may
he redeem it.

25:30 And if it be not redeemed within the space of a full year, then
the house that is in the walled city shall be established for ever to
him that bought it throughout his generations: it shall not go out in
the jubile.

25:31 But the houses of the villages which have no wall round about
them shall be counted as the fields of the country: they may be
redeemed, and they shall go out in the jubile.

25:32 Notwithstanding the cities of the Levites, and the houses of the
cities of their possession, may the Levites redeem at any time.

25:33 And if a man purchase of the Levites, then the house that was
sold, and the city of his possession, shall go out in the year of
jubile: for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their
possession among the children of Israel.

25:34 But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold;
for it is their perpetual possession.

25:35 And if thy brother be waxen poor, and fallen in decay with thee;
then thou shalt relieve him: yea, though he be a stranger, or a
sojourner; that he may live with thee.

25:36 Take thou no usury of him, or increase: but fear thy God; that
thy brother may live with thee.

25:37 Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy
victuals for increase.

25:38 I am the LORD your God, which brought you forth out of the land
of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God.

25:39 And if thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, and be
sold unto thee; thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bondservant:
25:40 But as an hired servant, and as a sojourner, he shall be with
thee, and shall serve thee unto the year of jubile.

25:41 And then shall he depart from thee, both he and his children
with him, and shall return unto his own family, and unto the
possession of his fathers shall he return.

25:42 For they are my servants, which I brought forth out of the land
of Egypt: they shall not be sold as bondmen.

25:43 Thou shalt not rule over him with rigour; but shalt fear thy
God.

25:44 Both thy bondmen, and thy bondmaids, which thou shalt have,
shall be of the heathen that are round about you; of them shall ye buy
bondmen and bondmaids.

25:45 Moreover of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among
you, of them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you,
which they begat in your land: and they shall be your possession.

25:46 And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children after
you, to inherit them for a possession; they shall be your bondmen for
ever: but over your brethren the children of Israel, ye shall not rule
one over another with rigour.

25:47 And if a sojourner or stranger wax rich by thee, and thy brother
that dwelleth by him wax poor, and sell himself unto the stranger or
sojourner by thee, or to the stock of the stranger's family: 25:48
After that he is sold he may be redeemed again; one of his brethren
may redeem him: 25:49 Either his uncle, or his uncle's son, may redeem
him, or any that is nigh of kin unto him of his family may redeem him;
or if he be able, he may redeem himself.

25:50 And he shall reckon with him that bought him from the year that
he was sold to him unto the year of jubile: and the price of his sale
shall be according unto the number of years, according to the time of
an hired servant shall it be with him.

25:51 If there be yet many years behind, according unto them he shall
give again the price of his redemption out of the money that he was
bought for.

25:52 And if there remain but few years unto the year of jubile, then
he shall count with him, and according unto his years shall he give
him again the price of his redemption.

25:53 And as a yearly hired servant shall he be with him: and the
other shall not rule with rigour over him in thy sight.

25:54 And if he be not redeemed in these years, then he shall go out
in the year of jubile, both he, and his children with him.

25:55 For unto me the children of Israel are servants; they are my
servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD
your God.

26:1 Ye shall make you no idols nor graven image, neither rear you up
a standing image, neither shall ye set up any image of stone in your
land, to bow down unto it: for I am the LORD your God.

26:2 Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the
LORD.

26:3 If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;
26:4 Then I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield
her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.

26:5 And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage
shall reach unto the sowing time: and ye shall eat your bread to the
full, and dwell in your land safely.

26:6 And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and
none shall make you afraid: and I will rid evil beasts out of the
land, neither shall the sword go through your land.

26:7 And ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you
by the sword.

26:8 And five of you shall chase an hundred, and an hundred of you
shall put ten thousand to flight: and your enemies shall fall before
you by the sword.

26:9 For I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and
multiply you, and establish my covenant with you.

26:10 And ye shall eat old store, and bring forth the old because of
the new.

26:11 And I set my tabernacle among you: and my soul shall not abhor
you.

26:12 And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and ye shall be
my people.

26:13 I am the LORD your God, which brought you forth out of the land
of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen; and I have broken the
bands of your yoke, and made you go upright.

26:14 But if ye will not hearken unto me, and will not do all these
commandments; 26:15 And if ye shall despise my statutes, or if your
soul abhor my judgments, so that ye will not do all my commandments,
but that ye break my covenant: 26:16 I also will do this unto you; I
will even appoint over you terror, consumption, and the burning ague,
that shall consume the eyes, and cause sorrow of heart: and ye shall
sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.

26:17 And I will set my face against you, and ye shall be slain before
your enemies: they that hate you shall reign over you; and ye shall
flee when none pursueth you.

26:18 And if ye will not yet for all this hearken unto me, then I will
punish you seven times more for your sins.

26:19 And I will break the pride of your power; and I will make your
heaven as iron, and your earth as brass: 26:20 And your strength shall
be spent in vain: for your land shall not yield her increase, neither
shall the trees of the land yield their fruits.

26:21 And if ye walk contrary unto me, and will not hearken unto me; I
will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins.

26:22 I will also send wild beasts among you, which shall rob you of
your children, and destroy your cattle, and make you few in number;
and your high ways shall be desolate.

26:23 And if ye will not be reformed by me by these things, but will
walk contrary unto me; 26:24 Then will I also walk contrary unto you,
and will punish you yet seven times for your sins.

26:25 And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall avenge the quarrel
of my covenant: and when ye are gathered together within your cities,
I will send the pestilence among you; and ye shall be delivered into
the hand of the enemy.

26:26 And when I have broken the staff of your bread, ten women shall
bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver you your bread
again by weight: and ye shall eat, and not be satisfied.

26:27 And if ye will not for all this hearken unto me, but walk
contrary unto me; 26:28 Then I will walk contrary unto you also in
fury; and I, even I, will chastise you seven times for your sins.

26:29 And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your
daughters shall ye eat.

26:30 And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your images,
and cast your carcases upon the carcases of your idols, and my soul
shall abhor you.

26:31 And I will make your cities waste, and bring your sanctuaries
unto desolation, and I will not smell the savour of your sweet odours.

26:32 And I will bring the land into desolation: and your enemies
which dwell therein shall be astonished at it.

26:33 And I will scatter you among the heathen, and will draw out a
sword after you: and your land shall be desolate, and your cities
waste.

26:34 Then shall the land enjoy her sabbaths, as long as it lieth
desolate, and ye be in your enemies' land; even then shall the land
rest, and enjoy her sabbaths.

26:35 As long as it lieth desolate it shall rest; because it did not
rest in your sabbaths, when ye dwelt upon it.

26:36 And upon them that are left alive of you I will send a faintness
into their hearts in the lands of their enemies; and the sound of a
shaken leaf shall chase them; and they shall flee, as fleeing from a
sword; and they shall fall when none pursueth.

26:37 And they shall fall one upon another, as it were before a sword,
when none pursueth: and ye shall have no power to stand before your
enemies.

26:38 And ye shall perish among the heathen, and the land of your
enemies shall eat you up.

26:39 And they that are left of you shall pine away in their iniquity
in your enemies' lands; and also in the iniquities of their fathers
shall they pine away with them.

26:40 If they shall confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their
fathers, with their trespass which they trespassed against me, and
that also they have walked contrary unto me; 26:41 And that I also
have walked contrary unto them, and have brought them into the land of
their enemies; if then their uncircumcised hearts be humbled, and they
then accept of the punishment of their iniquity: 26:42 Then will I
remember my covenant with Jacob, and also my covenant with Isaac, and
also my covenant with Abraham will I remember; and I will remember the
land.

26:43 The land also shall be left of them, and shall enjoy her
sabbaths, while she lieth desolate without them: and they shall accept
of the punishment of their iniquity: because, even because they
despised my judgments, and because their soul abhorred my statutes.

26:44 And yet for all that, when they be in the land of their enemies,
I will not cast them away, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them
utterly, and to break my covenant with them: for I am the LORD their
God.

26:45 But I will for their sakes remember the covenant of their
ancestors, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt in the sight
of the heathen, that I might be their God: I am the LORD.

26:46 These are the statutes and judgments and laws, which the LORD
made between him and the children of Israel in mount Sinai by the hand
of Moses.

27:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 27:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, When a man shall make a
singular vow, the persons shall be for the LORD by thy estimation.

27:3 And thy estimation shall be of the male from twenty years old
even unto sixty years old, even thy estimation shall be fifty shekels
of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary.

27:4 And if it be a female, then thy estimation shall be thirty
shekels.

27:5 And if it be from five years old even unto twenty years old, then
thy estimation shall be of the male twenty shekels, and for the female
ten shekels.

27:6 And if it be from a month old even unto five years old, then thy
estimation shall be of the male five shekels of silver, and for the
female thy estimation shall be three shekels of silver.

27:7 And if it be from sixty years old and above; if it be a male,
then thy estimation shall be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten
shekels.

27:8 But if he be poorer than thy estimation, then he shall present
himself before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according
to his ability that vowed shall the priest value him.

27:9 And if it be a beast, whereof men bring an offering unto the
LORD, all that any man giveth of such unto the LORD shall be holy.

27:10 He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad
for a good: and if he shall at all change beast for beast, then it and
the exchange thereof shall be holy.

27:11 And if it be any unclean beast, of which they do not offer a
sacrifice unto the LORD, then he shall present the beast before the
priest: 27:12 And the priest shall value it, whether it be good or
bad: as thou valuest it, who art the priest, so shall it be.

27:13 But if he will at all redeem it, then he shall add a fifth part
thereof unto thy estimation.

27:14 And when a man shall sanctify his house to be holy unto the
LORD, then the priest shall estimate it, whether it be good or bad: as
the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand.

27:15 And if he that sanctified it will redeem his house, then he
shall add the fifth part of the money of thy estimation unto it, and
it shall be his.

27:16 And if a man shall sanctify unto the LORD some part of a field
of his possession, then thy estimation shall be according to the seed
thereof: an homer of barley seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of
silver.

27:17 If he sanctify his field from the year of jubile, according to
thy estimation it shall stand.

27:18 But if he sanctify his field after the jubile, then the priest
shall reckon unto him the money according to the years that remain,
even unto the year of the jubile, and it shall be abated from thy
estimation.

27:19 And if he that sanctified the field will in any wise redeem it,
then he shall add the fifth part of the money of thy estimation unto
it, and it shall be assured to him.

27:20 And if he will not redeem the field, or if he have sold the
field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more.

27:21 But the field, when it goeth out in the jubile, shall be holy
unto the LORD, as a field devoted; the possession thereof shall be the
priest's.

27:22 And if a man sanctify unto the LORD a field which he hath
bought, which is not of the fields of his possession; 27:23 Then the
priest shall reckon unto him the worth of thy estimation, even unto
the year of the jubile: and he shall give thine estimation in that
day, as a holy thing unto the LORD.

27:24 In the year of the jubile the field shall return unto him of
whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land did
belong.

27:25 And all thy estimations shall be according to the shekel of the
sanctuary: twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.

27:26 Only the firstling of the beasts, which should be the LORD's
firstling, no man shall sanctify it; whether it be ox, or sheep: it is
the LORD's.

27:27 And if it be of an unclean beast, then he shall redeem it
according to thine estimation, and shall add a fifth part of it
thereto: or if it be not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to
thy estimation.

27:28 Notwithstanding no devoted thing, that a man shall devote unto
the LORD of all that he hath, both of man and beast, and of the field
of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is
most holy unto the LORD.

27:29 None devoted, which shall be devoted of men, shall be redeemed;
but shall surely be put to death.

27:30 And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land,
or of the fruit of the tree, is the LORD's: it is holy unto the LORD.

27:31 And if a man will at all redeem ought of his tithes, he shall
add thereto the fifth part thereof.

27:32 And concerning the tithe of the herd, or of the flock, even of
whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the
LORD.

27:33 He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he
change it: and if he change it at all, then both it and the change
thereof shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.

27:34 These are the commandments, which the LORD commanded Moses for
the children of Israel in mount Sinai.




The Fourth Book of Moses:  Called Numbers


1:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the
tabernacle of the congregation, on the first day of the second month,
in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt,
saying, 1:2 Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of
Israel, after their families, by the house of their fathers, with the
number of their names, every male by their polls; 1:3 From twenty
years old and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel:
thou and Aaron shall number them by their armies.

1:4 And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head
of the house of his fathers.

1:5 And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you: of
the tribe of Reuben; Elizur the son of Shedeur.

1:6 Of Simeon; Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.

1:7 Of Judah; Nahshon the son of Amminadab.

1:8 Of Issachar; Nethaneel the son of Zuar.

1:9 Of Zebulun; Eliab the son of Helon.

1:10 Of the children of Joseph: of Ephraim; Elishama the son of
Ammihud: of Manasseh; Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

1:11 Of Benjamin; Abidan the son of Gideoni.

1:12 Of Dan; Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.

1:13 Of Asher; Pagiel the son of Ocran.

1:14 Of Gad; Eliasaph the son of Deuel.

1:15 Of Naphtali; Ahira the son of Enan.

1:16 These were the renowned of the congregation, princes of the
tribes of their fathers, heads of thousands in Israel.

1:17 And Moses and Aaron took these men which are expressed by their
names: 1:18 And they assembled all the congregation together on the
first day of the second month, and they declared their pedigrees after
their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number
of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls.

1:19 As the LORD commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the
wilderness of Sinai.

1:20 And the children of Reuben, Israel's eldest son, by their
generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers,
according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from
twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;
1:21 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Reuben,
were forty and six thousand and five hundred.

1:22 Of the children of Simeon, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, those that were numbered of
them, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male
from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to
war; 1:23 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of
Simeon, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred.

1:24 Of the children of Gad, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:25 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Gad, were forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty.

1:26 Of the children of Judah, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:27 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Judah, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.

1:28 Of the children of Issachar, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:29 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Issachar, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred.

1:30 Of the children of Zebulun, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:31 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Zebulun, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.

1:32 Of the children of Joseph, namely, of the children of Ephraim, by
their generations, after their families, by the house of their
fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old
and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; 1:33 Those that
were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Ephraim, were forty
thousand and five hundred.

1:34 Of the children of Manasseh, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:35 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Manasseh, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred.

1:36 Of the children of Benjamin, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:37 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Benjamin, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred.

1:38 Of the children of Dan, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:39 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Dan, were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.

1:40 Of the children of Asher, by their generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:41 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Asher, were forty and one thousand and five hundred.

1:42 Of the children of Naphtali, throughout their generations, after
their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number
of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to
go forth to war; 1:43 Those that were numbered of them, even of the
tribe of Naphtali, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.

1:44 These are those that were numbered, which Moses and Aaron
numbered, and the princes of Israel, being twelve men: each one was
for the house of his fathers.

1:45 So were all those that were numbered of the children of Israel,
by the house of their fathers, from twenty years old and upward, all
that were able to go forth to war in Israel; 1:46 Even all they that
were numbered were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five
hundred and fifty.

1:47 But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not
numbered among them.

1:48 For the LORD had spoken unto Moses, saying, 1:49 Only thou shalt
not number the tribe of Levi, neither take the sum of them among the
children of Israel: 1:50 But thou shalt appoint the Levites over the
tabernacle of testimony, and over all the vessels thereof, and over
all things that belong to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, and all
the vessels thereof; and they shall minister unto it, and shall encamp
round about the tabernacle.

1:51 And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall take
it down: and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall
set it up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.

1:52 And the children of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by
his own camp, and every man by his own standard, throughout their
hosts.

1:53 But the Levites shall pitch round about the tabernacle of
testimony, that there be no wrath upon the congregation of the
children of Israel: and the Levites shall keep the charge of the
tabernacle of testimony.

1:54 And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD
commanded Moses, so did they.

2:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 2:2 Every
man of the children of Israel shall pitch by his own standard, with
the ensign of their father's house: far off about the tabernacle of
the congregation shall they pitch.

2:3 And on the east side toward the rising of the sun shall they of
the standard of the camp of Judah pitch throughout their armies: and
Nahshon the son of Amminadab shall be captain of the children of
Judah.

2:4 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were
threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.

2:5 And those that do pitch next unto him shall be the tribe of
Issachar: and Nethaneel the son of Zuar shall be captain of the
children of Issachar.

2:6 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and
four thousand and four hundred.

2:7 Then the tribe of Zebulun: and Eliab the son of Helon shall be
captain of the children of Zebulun.

2:8 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and
seven thousand and four hundred.

2:9 All that were numbered in the camp of Judah were an hundred
thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred,
throughout their armies. These shall first set forth.

2:10 On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben
according to their armies: and the captain of the children of Reuben
shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.

2:11 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were forty
and six thousand and five hundred.

2:12 And those which pitch by him shall be the tribe of Simeon: and
the captain of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of
Zurishaddai.

2:13 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty
and nine thousand and three hundred.

2:14 Then the tribe of Gad: and the captain of the sons of Gad shall
be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.

2:15 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty
and five thousand and six hundred and fifty.

2:16 All that were numbered in the camp of Reuben were an hundred
thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty,
throughout their armies. And they shall set forth in the second rank.

2:17 Then the tabernacle of the congregation shall set forward with
the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camp: as they encamp, so
shall they set forward, every man in his place by their standards.

2:18 On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim
according to their armies: and the captain of the sons of Ephraim
shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.

2:19 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty
thousand and five hundred.

2:20 And by him shall be the tribe of Manasseh: and the captain of the
children of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

2:21 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty
and two thousand and two hundred.

2:22 Then the tribe of Benjamin: and the captain of the sons of
Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.

2:23 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty
and five thousand and four hundred.

2:24 All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were an hundred
thousand and eight thousand and an hundred, throughout their armies.
And they shall go forward in the third rank.

2:25 The standard of the camp of Dan shall be on the north side by
their armies: and the captain of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer
the son of Ammishaddai.

2:26 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were
threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.

2:27 And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the
captain of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ocran.

2:28 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty
and one thousand and five hundred.

2:29 Then the tribe of Naphtali: and the captain of the children of
Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.

2:30 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty
and three thousand and four hundred.

2:31 All they that were numbered in the camp of Dan were an hundred
thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall go
hindmost with their standards.

2:32 These are those which were numbered of the children of Israel by
the house of their fathers: all those that were numbered of the camps
throughout their hosts were six hundred thousand and three thousand
and five hundred and fifty.

2:33 But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel;
as the LORD commanded Moses.

2:34 And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD
commanded Moses: so they pitched by their standards, and so they set
forward, every one after their families, according to the house of
their fathers.

3:1 These also are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that
the LORD spake with Moses in mount Sinai.

3:2 And these are the names of the sons of Aaron; Nadab the firstborn,
and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests which were
anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest's office.

3:4 And Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD, when they offered
strange fire before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had
no children: and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest's office
in the sight of Aaron their father.

3:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 3:6 Bring the tribe of Levi
near, and present them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister
unto him.

3:7 And they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the whole
congregation before the tabernacle of the congregation, to do the
service of the tabernacle.

3:8 And they shall keep all the instruments of the tabernacle of the
congregation, and the charge of the children of Israel, to do the
service of the tabernacle.

3:9 And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sons: they
are wholly given unto him out of the children of Israel.

3:10 And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall wait on
their priest's office: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put
to death.

3:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 3:12 And I, behold, I have
taken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all the
firstborn that openeth the matrix among the children of Israel:
therefore the Levites shall be mine; 3:13 Because all the firstborn
are mine; for on the day that I smote all the firstborn in the land of
Egypt I hallowed unto me all the firstborn in Israel, both man and
beast: mine shall they be: I am the LORD.

3:14 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,
3:15 Number the children of Levi after the house of their fathers, by
their families: every male from a month old and upward shalt thou
number them.

3:16 And Moses numbered them according to the word of the LORD, as he
was commanded.

3:17 And these were the sons of Levi by their names; Gershon, and
Kohath, and Merari.

3:18 And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families;
Libni, and Shimei.

3:19 And the sons of Kohath by their families; Amram, and Izehar,
Hebron, and Uzziel.

3:20 And the sons of Merari by their families; Mahli, and Mushi. These
are the families of the Levites according to the house of their
fathers.

3:21 Of Gershon was the family of the Libnites, and the family of the
Shimites: these are the families of the Gershonites.

3:22 Those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all
the males, from a month old and upward, even those that were numbered
of them were seven thousand and five hundred.

3:23 The families of the Gershonites shall pitch behind the tabernacle
westward.

3:24 And the chief of the house of the father of the Gershonites shall
be Eliasaph the son of Lael.

3:25 And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tabernacle of the
congregation shall be the tabernacle, and the tent, the covering
thereof, and the hanging for the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation, 3:26 And the hangings of the court, and the curtain for
the door of the court, which is by the tabernacle, and by the altar
round about, and the cords of it for all the service thereof.

3:27 And of Kohath was the family of the Amramites, and the family of
the Izeharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family of
the Uzzielites: these are the families of the Kohathites.

3:28 In the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, were
eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary.

3:29 The families of the sons of Kohath shall pitch on the side of the
tabernacle southward.

3:30 And the chief of the house of the father of the families of the
Kohathites shall be Elizaphan the son of Uzziel.

3:31 And their charge shall be the ark, and the table, and the
candlestick, and the altars, and the vessels of the sanctuary
wherewith they minister, and the hanging, and all the service thereof.

3:32 And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall be chief over the
chief of the Levites, and have the oversight of them that keep the
charge of the sanctuary.

3:33 Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family of the
Mushites: these are the families of Merari.

3:34 And those that were numbered of them, according to the number of
all the males, from a month old and upward, were six thousand and two
hundred.

3:35 And the chief of the house of the father of the families of
Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail: these shall pitch on the side of
the tabernacle northward.

3:36 And under the custody and charge of the sons of Merari shall be
the boards of the tabernacle, and the bars thereof, and the pillars
thereof, and the sockets thereof, and all the vessels thereof, and all
that serveth thereto, 3:37 And the pillars of the court round about,
and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords.

3:38 But those that encamp before the tabernacle toward the east, even
before the tabernacle of the congregation eastward, shall be Moses,
and Aaron and his sons, keeping the charge of the sanctuary for the
charge of the children of Israel; and the stranger that cometh nigh
shall be put to death.

3:39 All that were numbered of the Levites, which Moses and Aaron
numbered at the commandment of the LORD, throughout their families,
all the males from a month old and upward, were twenty and two
thousand.

3:40 And the LORD said unto Moses, Number all the firstborn of the
males of the children of Israel from a month old and upward, and take
the number of their names.

3:41 And thou shalt take the Levites for me (I am the LORD) instead of
all the firstborn among the children of Israel; and the cattle of the
Levites instead of all the firstlings among the cattle of the children
of Israel.

3:42 And Moses numbered, as the LORD commanded him, all the firstborn
among the children of Israel.

3:43 And all the firstborn males by the number of names, from a month
old and upward, of those that were numbered of them, were twenty and
two thousand two hundred and threescore and thirteen.

3:44 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 3:45 Take the Levites
instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel, and the
cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and the Levites shall
be mine: I am the LORD.

3:46 And for those that are to be redeemed of the two hundred and
threescore and thirteen of the firstborn of the children of Israel,
which are more than the Levites; 3:47 Thou shalt even take five
shekels apiece by the poll, after the shekel of the sanctuary shalt
thou take them: (the shekel is twenty gerahs:) 3:48 And thou shalt
give the money, wherewith the odd number of them is to be redeemed,
unto Aaron and to his sons.

3:49 And Moses took the redemption money of them that were over and
above them that were redeemed by the Levites: 3:50 Of the firstborn of
the children of Israel took he the money; a thousand three hundred and
threescore and five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary: 3:51
And Moses gave the money of them that were redeemed unto Aaron and to
his sons, according to the word of the LORD, as the LORD commanded
Moses.

4:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 4:2 Take the
sum of the sons of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, 4:3 From thirty years old and
upward even until fifty years old, all that enter into the host, to do
the work in the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:4 This shall be the service of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle
of the congregation, about the most holy things: 4:5 And when the camp
setteth forward, Aaron shall come, and his sons, and they shall take
down the covering vail, and cover the ark of testimony with it: 4:6
And shall put thereon the covering of badgers' skins, and shall spread
over it a cloth wholly of blue, and shall put in the staves thereof.

4:7 And upon the table of shewbread they shall spread a cloth of blue,
and put thereon the dishes, and the spoons, and the bowls, and covers
to cover withal: and the continual bread shall be thereon: 4:8 And
they shall spread upon them a cloth of scarlet, and cover the same
with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put in the staves
thereof.

4:9 And they shall take a cloth of blue, and cover the candlestick of
the light, and his lamps, and his tongs, and his snuffdishes, and all
the oil vessels thereof, wherewith they minister unto it: 4:10 And
they shall put it and all the vessels thereof within a covering of
badgers' skins, and shall put it upon a bar.

4:11 And upon the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blue, and
cover it with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put to the
staves thereof: 4:12 And they shall take all the instruments of
ministry, wherewith they minister in the sanctuary, and put them in a
cloth of blue, and cover them with a covering of badgers' skins, and
shall put them on a bar: 4:13 And they shall take away the ashes from
the altar, and spread a purple cloth thereon: 4:14 And they shall put
upon it all the vessels thereof, wherewith they minister about it,
even the censers, the fleshhooks, and the shovels, and the basons, all
the vessels of the altar; and they shall spread upon it a covering of
badgers' skins, and put to the staves of it.

4:15 And when Aaron and his sons have made an end of covering the
sanctuary, and all the vessels of the sanctuary, as the camp is to set
forward; after that, the sons of Kohath shall come to bear it: but
they shall not touch any holy thing, lest they die. These things are
the burden of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the
congregation.

4:16 And to the office of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest
pertaineth the oil for the light, and the sweet incense, and the daily
meat offering, and the anointing oil, and the oversight of all the
tabernacle, and of all that therein is, in the sanctuary, and in the
vessels thereof.

4:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron saying, 4:18 Cut ye
not off the tribe of the families of the Kohathites from among the
Levites: 4:19 But thus do unto them, that they may live, and not die,
when they approach unto the most holy things: Aaron and his sons shall
go in, and appoint them every one to his service and to his burden:
4:20 But they shall not go in to see when the holy things are covered,
lest they die.

4:21 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 4:22 Take also the sum of
the sons of Gershon, throughout the houses of their fathers, by their
families; 4:23 From thirty years old and upward until fifty years old
shalt thou number them; all that enter in to perform the service, to
do the work in the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:24 This is the service of the families of the Gershonites, to serve,
and for burdens: 4:25 And they shall bear the curtains of the
tabernacle, and the tabernacle of the congregation, his covering, and
the covering of the badgers' skins that is above upon it, and the
hanging for the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, 4:26 And
the hangings of the court, and the hanging for the door of the gate of
the court, which is by the tabernacle and by the altar round about,
and their cords, and all the instruments of their service, and all
that is made for them: so shall they serve.

4:27 At the appointment of Aaron and his sons shall be all the service
of the sons of the Gershonites, in all their burdens, and in all their
service: and ye shall appoint unto them in charge all their burdens.

4:28 This is the service of the families of the sons of Gershon in the
tabernacle of the congregation: and their charge shall be under the
hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.

4:29 As for the sons of Merari, thou shalt number them after their
families, by the house of their fathers; 4:30 From thirty years old
and upward even unto fifty years old shalt thou number them, every one
that entereth into the service, to do the work of the tabernacle of
the congregation.

4:31 And this is the charge of their burden, according to all their
service in the tabernacle of the congregation; the boards of the
tabernacle, and the bars thereof, and the pillars thereof, and sockets
thereof, 4:32 And the pillars of the court round about, and their
sockets, and their pins, and their cords, with all their instruments,
and with all their service: and by name ye shall reckon the
instruments of the charge of their burden.

4:33 This is the service of the families of the sons of Merari,
according to all their service, in the tabernacle of the congregation,
under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.

4:34 And Moses and Aaron and the chief of the congregation numbered
the sons of the Kohathites after their families, and after the house
of their fathers, 4:35 From thirty years old and upward even unto
fifty years old, every one that entereth into the service, for the
work in the tabernacle of the congregation: 4:36 And those that were
numbered of them by their families were two thousand seven hundred and
fifty.

4:37 These were they that were numbered of the families of the
Kohathites, all that might do service in the tabernacle of the
congregation, which Moses and Aaron did number according to the
commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

4:38 And those that were numbered of the sons of Gershon, throughout
their families, and by the house of their fathers, 4:39 From thirty
years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that
entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the
congregation, 4:40 Even those that were numbered of them, throughout
their families, by the house of their fathers, were two thousand and
six hundred and thirty.

4:41 These are they that were numbered of the families of the sons of
Gershon, of all that might do service in the tabernacle of the
congregation, whom Moses and Aaron did number according to the
commandment of the LORD.

4:42 And those that were numbered of the families of the sons of
Merari, throughout their families, by the house of their fathers, 4:43
From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one
that entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the
congregation, 4:44 Even those that were numbered of them after their
families, were three thousand and two hundred.

4:45 These be those that were numbered of the families of the sons of
Merari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the word of the
LORD by the hand of Moses.

4:46 All those that were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron
and the chief of Israel numbered, after their families, and after the
house of their fathers, 4:47 From thirty years old and upward even
unto fifty years old, every one that came to do the service of the
ministry, and the service of the burden in the tabernacle of the
congregation.

4:48 Even those that were numbered of them, were eight thousand and
five hundred and fourscore, 4:49 According to the commandment of the
LORD they were numbered by the hand of Moses, every one according to
his service, and according to his burden: thus were they numbered of
him, as the LORD commanded Moses.

5:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 5:2 Command the children of
Israel, that they put out of the camp every leper, and every one that
hath an issue, and whosoever is defiled by the dead: 5:3 Both male and
female shall ye put out, without the camp shall ye put them; that they
defile not their camps, in the midst whereof I dwell.

5:4 And the children of Israel did so, and put them out without the
camp: as the LORD spake unto Moses, so did the children of Israel.

5:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 5:6 Speak unto the children
of Israel, When a man or woman shall commit any sin that men commit,
to do a trespass against the LORD, and that person be guilty; 5:7 Then
they shall confess their sin which they have done: and he shall
recompense his trespass with the principal thereof, and add unto it
the fifth part thereof, and give it unto him against whom he hath
trespassed.

5:8 But if the man have no kinsman to recompense the trespass unto,
let the trespass be recompensed unto the LORD, even to the priest;
beside the ram of the atonement, whereby an atonement shall be made
for him.

5:9 And every offering of all the holy things of the children of
Israel, which they bring unto the priest, shall be his.

5:10 And every man's hallowed things shall be his: whatsoever any man
giveth the priest, it shall be his.

5:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 5:12 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, If any man's wife go aside, and
commit a trespass against him, 5:13 And a man lie with her carnally,
and it be hid from the eyes of her husband, and be kept close, and she
be defiled, and there be no witness against her, neither she be taken
with the manner; 5:14 And the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he
be jealous of his wife, and she be defiled: or if the spirit of
jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she be not
defiled: 5:15 Then shall the man bring his wife unto the priest, and
he shall bring her offering for her, the tenth part of an ephah of
barley meal; he shall pour no oil upon it, nor put frankincense
thereon; for it is an offering of jealousy, an offering of memorial,
bringing iniquity to remembrance.

5:16 And the priest shall bring her near, and set her before the LORD:
5:17 And the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel; and of
the dust that is in the floor of the tabernacle the priest shall take,
and put it into the water: 5:18 And the priest shall set the woman
before the LORD, and uncover the woman's head, and put the offering of
memorial in her hands, which is the jealousy offering: and the priest
shall have in his hand the bitter water that causeth the curse: 5:19
And the priest shall charge her by an oath, and say unto the woman, If
no man have lain with thee, and if thou hast not gone aside to
uncleanness with another instead of thy husband, be thou free from
this bitter water that causeth the curse: 5:20 But if thou hast gone
aside to another instead of thy husband, and if thou be defiled, and
some man have lain with thee beside thine husband: 5:21 Then the
priest shall charge the woman with an oath of cursing, and the priest
shall say unto the woman, The LORD make thee a curse and an oath among
thy people, when the LORD doth make thy thigh to rot, and thy belly to
swell; 5:22 And this water that causeth the curse shall go into thy
bowels, to make thy belly to swell, and thy thigh to rot: And the
woman shall say, Amen, amen.

5:23 And the priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall
blot them out with the bitter water: 5:24 And he shall cause the woman
to drink the bitter water that causeth the curse: and the water that
causeth the curse shall enter into her, and become bitter.

5:25 Then the priest shall take the jealousy offering out of the
woman's hand, and shall wave the offering before the LORD, and offer
it upon the altar: 5:26 And the priest shall take an handful of the
offering, even the memorial thereof, and burn it upon the altar, and
afterward shall cause the woman to drink the water.

5:27 And when he hath made her to drink the water, then it shall come
to pass, that, if she be defiled, and have done trespass against her
husband, that the water that causeth the curse shall enter into her,
and become bitter, and her belly shall swell, and her thigh shall rot:
and the woman shall be a curse among her people.

5:28 And if the woman be not defiled, but be clean; then she shall be
free, and shall conceive seed.

5:29 This is the law of jealousies, when a wife goeth aside to another
instead of her husband, and is defiled; 5:30 Or when the spirit of
jealousy cometh upon him, and he be jealous over his wife, and shall
set the woman before the LORD, and the priest shall execute upon her
all this law.

5:31 Then shall the man be guiltless from iniquity, and this woman
shall bear her iniquity.

6:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:2 Speak unto the children
of Israel, and say unto them, When either man or woman shall separate
themselves to vow a vow of a Nazarite, to separate themselves unto the
LORD: 6:3 He shall separate himself from wine and strong drink, and
shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of strong drink, neither
shall he drink any liquor of grapes, nor eat moist grapes, or dried.

6:4 All the days of his separation shall he eat nothing that is made
of the vine tree, from the kernels even to the husk.

6:5 All the days of the vow of his separation there shall no razor
come upon his head: until the days be fulfilled, in the which he
separateth himself unto the LORD, he shall be holy, and shall let the
locks of the hair of his head grow.

6:6 All the days that he separateth himself unto the LORD he shall
come at no dead body.

6:7 He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his
mother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die: because the
consecration of his God is upon his head.

6:8 All the days of his separation he is holy unto the LORD.

6:9 And if any man die very suddenly by him, and he hath defiled the
head of his consecration; then he shall shave his head in the day of
his cleansing, on the seventh day shall he shave it.

6:10 And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtles, or two young
pigeons, to the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation: 6:11 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin
offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and make an atonement
for him, for that he sinned by the dead, and shall hallow his head
that same day.

6:12 And he shall consecrate unto the LORD the days of his separation,
and shall bring a lamb of the first year for a trespass offering: but
the days that were before shall be lost, because his separation was
defiled.

6:13 And this is the law of the Nazarite, when the days of his
separation are fulfilled: he shall be brought unto the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation: 6:14 And he shall offer his offering
unto the LORD, one he lamb of the first year without blemish for a
burnt offering, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish for
a sin offering, and one ram without blemish for peace offerings, 6:15
And a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mingled with
oil, and wafers of unleavened bread anointed with oil, and their meat
offering, and their drink offerings.

6:16 And the priest shall bring them before the LORD, and shall offer
his sin offering, and his burnt offering: 6:17 And he shall offer the
ram for a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD, with the basket
of unleavened bread: the priest shall offer also his meat offering,
and his drink offering.

6:18 And the Nazarite shall shave the head of his separation at the
door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall take the hair of
the head of his separation, and put it in the fire which is under the
sacrifice of the peace offerings.

6:19 And the priest shall take the sodden shoulder of the ram, and one
unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall
put them upon the hands of the Nazarite, after the hair of his
separation is shaven: 6:20 And the priest shall wave them for a wave
offering before the LORD: this is holy for the priest, with the wave
breast and heave shoulder: and after that the Nazarite may drink wine.

6:21 This is the law of the Nazarite who hath vowed, and of his
offering unto the LORD for his separation, beside that that his hand
shall get: according to the vow which he vowed, so he must do after
the law of his separation.

6:22 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:23 Speak unto Aaron and
unto his sons, saying, On this wise ye shall bless the children of
Israel, saying unto them, 6:24 The LORD bless thee, and keep thee:
6:25 The LORD make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto
thee: 6:26 The LORD lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee
peace.

6:27 And they shall put my name upon the children of Israel, and I
will bless them.

7:1 And it came to pass on the day that Moses had fully set up the
tabernacle, and had anointed it, and sanctified it, and all the
instruments thereof, both the altar and all the vessels thereof, and
had anointed them, and sanctified them; 7:2 That the princes of
Israel, heads of the house of their fathers, who were the princes of
the tribes, and were over them that were numbered, offered: 7:3 And
they brought their offering before the LORD, six covered wagons, and
twelve oxen; a wagon for two of the princes, and for each one an ox:
and they brought them before the tabernacle.

7:4 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 7:5 Take it of them, that
they may be to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation;
and thou shalt give them unto the Levites, to every man according to
his service.

7:6 And Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them unto the
Levites.

7:7 Two wagons and four oxen he gave unto the sons of Gershon,
according to their service: 7:8 And four wagons and eight oxen he gave
unto the sons of Merari, according unto their service, under the hand
of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.

7:9 But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none: because the service of
the sanctuary belonging unto them was that they should bear upon their
shoulders.

7:10 And the princes offered for dedicating of the altar in the day
that it was anointed, even the princes offered their offering before
the altar.

7:11 And the LORD said unto Moses, They shall offer their offering,
each prince on his day, for the dedicating of the altar.

7:12 And he that offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the
son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah: 7:13 And his offering was one
silver charger, the weight thereof was an hundred and thirty shekels,
one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
both of them were full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat
offering: 7:14 One spoon of ten shekels of gold, full of incense: 7:15
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt
offering: 7:16 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:17 And for a
sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five
lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Nahshon the son of
Amminadab.

7:18 On the second day Nethaneel the son of Zuar, prince of Issachar,
did offer: 7:19 He offered for his offering one silver charger, the
weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of
seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full
of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:20 One spoon of
gold of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:21 One young bullock, one ram,
one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:22 One kid of the
goats for a sin offering: 7:23 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings,
two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this
was the offering of Nethaneel the son of Zuar.

7:24 On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children
of Zebulun, did offer: 7:25 His offering was one silver charger, the
weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of
seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full
of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:26 One golden
spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:27 One young bullock, one
ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:28 One kid of
the goats for a sin offering: 7:29 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.

7:30 On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, prince of the
children of Reuben, did offer: 7:31 His offering was one silver
charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver
bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of
them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:32 One
golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:33 One young bullock,
one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:34 One
kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:35 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.

7:36 On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, prince of the
children of Simeon, did offer: 7:37 His offering was one silver
charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one
silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
7:38 One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:39 One young
bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
7:40 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:41 And for a sacrifice
of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of
the first year: this was the offering of Shelumiel the son of
Zurishaddai.

7:42 On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of the
children of Gad, offered: 7:43 His offering was one silver charger of
the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, a silver bowl of seventy
shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine
flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:44 One golden spoon of
ten shekels, full of incense: 7:45 One young bullock, one ram, one
lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:46 One kid of the
goats for a sin offering: 7:47 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings,
two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this
was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.

7:48 On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, prince of the
children of Ephraim, offered: 7:49 His offering was one silver
charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one
silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
7:50 One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:51 One young
bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
7:52 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:53 And for a sacrifice
of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of
the first year: this was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.

7:54 On the eighth day offered Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, prince of
the children of Manasseh: 7:55 His offering was one silver charger of
the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of
seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full
of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:56 One golden
spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:57 One young bullock, one
ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:58 One kid of
the goats for a sin offering: 7:59 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

7:60 On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, prince of the
children of Benjamin, offered: 7:61 His offering was one silver
charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one
silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
7:62 One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:63 One young
bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:
7:64 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:65 And for a sacrifice
of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of
the first year: this was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.

7:66 On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of the
children of Dan, offered: 7:67 His offering was one silver charger,
the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl
of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them
full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:68 One
golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:69 One young bullock,
one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:70 One
kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:71 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.

7:72 On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ocran, prince of the
children of Asher, offered: 7:73 His offering was one silver charger,
the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl
of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them
full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:74 One
golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:75 One young bullock,
one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:76 One
kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:77 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ocran.

7:78 On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, prince of the children
of Naphtali, offered: 7:79 His offering was one silver charger, the
weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of
seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full
of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:80 One golden
spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:81 One young bullock, one
ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:82 One kid of
the goats for a sin offering: 7:83 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.

7:84 This was the dedication of the altar, in the day when it was
anointed, by the princes of Israel: twelve chargers of silver, twelve
silver bowls, twelve spoons of gold: 7:85 Each charger of silver
weighing an hundred and thirty shekels, each bowl seventy: all the
silver vessels weighed two thousand and four hundred shekels, after
the shekel of the sanctuary: 7:86 The golden spoons were twelve, full
of incense, weighing ten shekels apiece, after the shekel of the
sanctuary: all the gold of the spoons was an hundred and twenty
shekels.

7:87 All the oxen for the burnt offering were twelve bullocks, the
rams twelve, the lambs of the first year twelve, with their meat
offering: and the kids of the goats for sin offering twelve.

7:88 And all the oxen for the sacrifice of the peace offerings were
twenty and four bullocks, the rams sixty, the he goats sixty, the
lambs of the first year sixty. This was the dedication of the altar,
after that it was anointed.

7:89 And when Moses was gone into the tabernacle of the congregation
to speak with him, then he heard the voice of one speaking unto him
from off the mercy seat that was upon the ark of testimony, from
between the two cherubims: and he spake unto him.

8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 8:2 Speak unto Aaron and
say unto him, When thou lightest the lamps, the seven lamps shall give
light over against the candlestick.

8:3 And Aaron did so; he lighted the lamps thereof over against the
candlestick, as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:4 And this work of the candlestick was of beaten gold, unto the
shaft thereof, unto the flowers thereof, was beaten work: according
unto the pattern which the LORD had shewed Moses, so he made the
candlestick.

8:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 8:6 Take the Levites from
among the children of Israel, and cleanse them.

8:7 And thus shalt thou do unto them, to cleanse them: Sprinkle water
of purifying upon them, and let them shave all their flesh, and let
them wash their clothes, and so make themselves clean.

8:8 Then let them take a young bullock with his meat offering, even
fine flour mingled with oil, and another young bullock shalt thou take
for a sin offering.

8:9 And thou shalt bring the Levites before the tabernacle of the
congregation: and thou shalt gather the whole assembly of the children
of Israel together: 8:10 And thou shalt bring the Levites before the
LORD: and the children of Israel shall put their hands upon the
Levites: 8:11 And Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD for an
offering of the children of Israel, that they may execute the service
of the LORD.

8:12 And the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the
bullocks: and thou shalt offer the one for a sin offering, and the
other for a burnt offering, unto the LORD, to make an atonement for
the Levites.

8:13 And thou shalt set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons,
and offer them for an offering unto the LORD.

8:14 Thus shalt thou separate the Levites from among the children of
Israel: and the Levites shall be mine.

8:15 And after that shall the Levites go in to do the service of the
tabernacle of the congregation: and thou shalt cleanse them, and offer
them for an offering.

8:16 For they are wholly given unto me from among the children of
Israel; instead of such as open every womb, even instead of the
firstborn of all the children of Israel, have I taken them unto me.

8:17 For all the firstborn of the children of Israel are mine, both
man and beast: on the day that I smote every firstborn in the land of
Egypt I sanctified them for myself.

8:18 And I have taken the Levites for all the firstborn of the
children of Israel.

8:19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons
from among the children of Israel, to do the service of the children
of Israel in the tabernacle of the congregation, and to make an
atonement for the children of Israel: that there be no plague among
the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come nigh unto the
sanctuary.

8:20 And Moses, and Aaron, and all the congregation of the children of
Israel, did to the Levites according unto all that the LORD commanded
Moses concerning the Levites, so did the children of Israel unto them.

8:21 And the Levites were purified, and they washed their clothes; and
Aaron offered them as an offering before the LORD; and Aaron made an
atonement for them to cleanse them.

8:22 And after that went the Levites in to do their service in the
tabernacle of the congregation before Aaron, and before his sons: as
the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did they unto
them.

8:23 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 8:24 This is it that
belongeth unto the Levites: from twenty and five years old and upward
they shall go in to wait upon the service of the tabernacle of the
congregation: 8:25 And from the age of fifty years they shall cease
waiting upon the service thereof, and shall serve no more: 8:26 But
shall minister with their brethren in the tabernacle of the
congregation, to keep the charge, and shall do no service. Thus shalt
thou do unto the Levites touching their charge.

9:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the
first month of the second year after they were come out of the land of
Egypt, saying, 9:2 Let the children of Israel also keep the passover
at his appointed season.

9:3 In the fourteenth day of this month, at even, ye shall keep it in
his appointed season: according to all the rites of it, and according
to all the ceremonies thereof, shall ye keep it.

9:4 And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, that they should keep
the passover.

9:5 And they kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the first
month at even in the wilderness of Sinai: according to all that the
LORD commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel.

9:6 And there were certain men, who were defiled by the dead body of a
man, that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they came
before Moses and before Aaron on that day: 9:7 And those men said unto
him, We are defiled by the dead body of a man: wherefore are we kept
back, that we may not offer an offering of the LORD in his appointed
season among the children of Israel?  9:8 And Moses said unto them,
Stand still, and I will hear what the LORD will command concerning
you.

9:9 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 9:10 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your posterity
shall be unclean by reason of a dead body, or be in a journey afar
off, yet he shall keep the passover unto the LORD.

9:11 The fourteenth day of the second month at even they shall keep
it, and eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.

9:12 They shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break any bone
of it: according to all the ordinances of the passover they shall keep
it.

9:13 But the man that is clean, and is not in a journey, and
forbeareth to keep the passover, even the same soul shall be cut off
from among his people: because he brought not the offering of the LORD
in his appointed season, that man shall bear his sin.

9:14 And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the
passover unto the LORD; according to the ordinance of the passover,
and according to the manner thereof, so shall he do: ye shall have one
ordinance, both for the stranger, and for him that was born in the
land.

9:15 And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud
covered the tabernacle, namely, the tent of the testimony: and at even
there was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until
the morning.

9:16 So it was alway: the cloud covered it by day, and the appearance
of fire by night.

9:17 And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after
that the children of Israel journeyed: and in the place where the
cloud abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents.

9:18 At the commandment of the LORD the children of Israel journeyed,
and at the commandment of the LORD they pitched: as long as the cloud
abode upon the tabernacle they rested in their tents.

9:19 And when the cloud tarried long upon the tabernacle many days,
then the children of Israel kept the charge of the LORD, and journeyed
not.

9:20 And so it was, when the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle;
according to the commandment of the LORD they abode in their tents,
and according to the commandment of the LORD they journeyed.

9:21 And so it was, when the cloud abode from even unto the morning,
and that the cloud was taken up in the morning, then they journeyed:
whether it was by day or by night that the cloud was taken up, they
journeyed.

9:22 Or whether it were two days, or a month, or a year, that the
cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon, the children of
Israel abode in their tents, and journeyed not: but when it was taken
up, they journeyed.

9:23 At the commandment of the LORD they rested in the tents, and at
the commandment of the LORD they journeyed: they kept the charge of
the LORD, at the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

10:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 10:2 Make thee two
trumpets of silver; of a whole piece shalt thou make them: that thou
mayest use them for the calling of the assembly, and for the
journeying of the camps.

10:3 And when they shall blow with them, all the assembly shall
assemble themselves to thee at the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation.

10:4 And if they blow but with one trumpet, then the princes, which
are heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves unto
thee.

10:5 When ye blow an alarm, then the camps that lie on the east parts
shall go forward.

10:6 When ye blow an alarm the second time, then the camps that lie on
the south side shall take their journey: they shall blow an alarm for
their journeys.

10:7 But when the congregation is to be gathered together, ye shall
blow, but ye shall not sound an alarm.

10:8 And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow with the trumpets;
and they shall be to you for an ordinance for ever throughout your
generations.

10:9 And if ye go to war in your land against the enemy that
oppresseth you, then ye shall blow an alarm with the trumpets; and ye
shall be remembered before the LORD your God, and ye shall be saved
from your enemies.

10:10 Also in the day of your gladness, and in your solemn days, and
in the beginnings of your months, ye shall blow with the trumpets over
your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings;
that they may be to you for a memorial before your God: I am the LORD
your God.

10:11 And it came to pass on the twentieth day of the second month, in
the second year, that the cloud was taken up from off the tabernacle
of the testimony.

10:12 And the children of Israel took their journeys out of the
wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran.

10:13 And they first took their journey according to the commandment
of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

10:14 In the first place went the standard of the camp of the children
of Judah according to their armies: and over his host was Nahshon the
son of Amminadab.

10:15 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar was
Nethaneel the son of Zuar.

10:16 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was
Eliab the son of Helon.

10:17 And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and
the sons of Merari set forward, bearing the tabernacle.

10:18 And the standard of the camp of Reuben set forward according to
their armies: and over his host was Elizur the son of Shedeur.

10:19 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon was
Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.

10:20 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad was
Eliasaph the son of Deuel.

10:21 And the Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and the
other did set up the tabernacle against they came.

10:22 And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set
forward according to their armies: and over his host was Elishama the
son of Ammihud.

10:23 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh was
Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

10:24 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was
Abidan the son of Gideoni.

10:25 And the standard of the camp of the children of Dan set forward,
which was the rereward of all the camps throughout their hosts: and
over his host was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.

10:26 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher was
Pagiel the son of Ocran.

10:27 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was
Ahira the son of Enan.

10:28 Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel according to
their armies, when they set forward.

10:29 And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite,
Moses' father in law, We are journeying unto the place of which the
LORD said, I will give it you: come thou with us, and we will do thee
good: for the LORD hath spoken good concerning Israel.

10:30 And he said unto him, I will not go; but I will depart to mine
own land, and to my kindred.

10:31 And he said, Leave us not, I pray thee; forasmuch as thou
knowest how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and thou mayest be to
us instead of eyes.

10:32 And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that what
goodness the LORD shall do unto us, the same will we do unto thee.

10:33 And they departed from the mount of the LORD three days'
journey: and the ark of the covenant of the LORD went before them in
the three days' journey, to search out a resting place for them.

10:34 And the cloud of the LORD was upon them by day, when they went
out of the camp.

10:35 And it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said,
Rise up, LORD, and let thine enemies be scattered; and let them that
hate thee flee before thee.

10:36 And when it rested, he said, Return, O LORD, unto the many
thousands of Israel.

11:1 And when the people complained, it displeased the LORD: and the
LORD heard it; and his anger was kindled; and the fire of the LORD
burnt among them, and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts
of the camp.

11:2 And the people cried unto Moses; and when Moses prayed unto the
LORD, the fire was quenched.

11:3 And he called the name of the place Taberah: because the fire of
the LORD burnt among them.

11:4 And the mixt multitude that was among them fell a lusting: and
the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us
flesh to eat?  11:5 We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt
freely; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions,
and the garlick: 11:6 But now our soul is dried away: there is nothing
at all, beside this manna, before our eyes.

11:7 And the manna was as coriander seed, and the colour thereof as
the colour of bdellium.

11:8 And the people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in
mills, or beat it in a mortar, and baked it in pans, and made cakes of
it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.

11:9 And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell
upon it.

11:10 Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families,
every man in the door of his tent: and the anger of the LORD was
kindled greatly; Moses also was displeased.

11:11 And Moses said unto the LORD, Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy
servant? and wherefore have I not found favour in thy sight, that thou
layest the burden of all this people upon me?  11:12 Have I conceived
all this people? have I begotten them, that thou shouldest say unto
me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the sucking
child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers?  11:13
Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep
unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.

11:14 I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too
heavy for me.

11:15 And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of
hand, if I have found favour in thy sight; and let me not see my
wretchedness.

11:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the
elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the people,
and officers over them; and bring them unto the tabernacle of the
congregation, that they may stand there with thee.

11:17 And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will take
of the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them; and they
shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not
thyself alone.

11:18 And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against to
morrow, and ye shall eat flesh: for ye have wept in the ears of the
LORD, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us
in Egypt: therefore the LORD will give you flesh, and ye shall eat.

11:19 Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither
ten days, nor twenty days; 11:20 But even a whole month, until it come
out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome unto you: because that ye
have despised the LORD which is among you, and have wept before him,
saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt?  11:21 And Moses said, The
people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen; and thou
hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.

11:22 Shall the flocks and the herds be slain for them, to suffice
them?  or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them,
to suffice them?  11:23 And the LORD said unto Moses, Is the LORD's
hand waxed short? thou shalt see now whether my word shall come to
pass unto thee or not.

11:24 And Moses went out, and told the people the words of the LORD,
and gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them
round about the tabernacle.

11:25 And the LORD came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and took
of the spirit that was upon him, and gave it unto the seventy elders:
and it came to pass, that, when the spirit rested upon them, they
prophesied, and did not cease.

11:26 But there remained two of the men in the camp, the name of the
one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the spirit rested
upon them; and they were of them that were written, but went not out
unto the tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp.

11:27 And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and
Medad do prophesy in the camp.

11:28 And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his
young men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.

11:29 And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? would God
that all the LORD's people were prophets, and that the LORD would put
his spirit upon them!  11:30 And Moses gat him into the camp, he and
the elders of Israel.

11:31 And there went forth a wind from the LORD, and brought quails
from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, as it were a day's
journey on this side, and as it were a day's journey on the other
side, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits high upon the
face of the earth.

11:32 And the people stood up all that day, and all that night, and
all the next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered least
gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves
round about the camp.

11:33 And while the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it was
chewed, the wrath of the LORD was kindled against the people, and the
LORD smote the people with a very great plague.

11:34 And he called the name of that place Kibrothhattaavah: because
there they buried the people that lusted.

11:35 And the people journeyed from Kibrothhattaavah unto Hazeroth;
and abode at Hazeroth.

12:1 And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses because of the Ethiopian
woman whom he had married: for he had married an Ethiopian woman.

12:2 And they said, Hath the LORD indeed spoken only by Moses? hath he
not spoken also by us? And the LORD heard it.

12:3 (Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the men which were
upon the face of the earth.)  12:4 And the LORD spake suddenly unto
Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, Come out ye three unto the
tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out.

12:5 And the LORD came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in
the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam: and they both
came forth.

12:6 And he said, Hear now my words: If there be a prophet among you,
I the LORD will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak
unto him in a dream.

12:7 My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine house.

12:8 With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not in
dark speeches; and the similitude of the LORD shall he behold:
wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?
12:9 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them; and he
departed.

12:10 And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and, behold,
Miriam became leprous, white as snow: and Aaron looked upon Miriam,
and, behold, she was leprous.

12:11 And Aaron said unto Moses, Alas, my lord, I beseech thee, lay
not the sin upon us, wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein we
have sinned.

12:12 Let her not be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed
when he cometh out of his mother's womb.

12:13 And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, Heal her now, O God, I
beseech thee.

12:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, If her father had but spit in her
face, should she not be ashamed seven days? let her be shut out from
the camp seven days, and after that let her be received in again.

12:15 And Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days: and the people
journeyed not till Miriam was brought in again.

12:16 And afterward the people removed from Hazeroth, and pitched in
the wilderness of Paran.

13:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 13:2 Send thou men, that
they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of
Israel: of every tribe of their fathers shall ye send a man, every one
a ruler among them.

13:3 And Moses by the commandment of the LORD sent them from the
wilderness of Paran: all those men were heads of the children of
Israel.

13:4 And these were their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the
son of Zaccur.

13:5 Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori.

13:6 Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

13:7 Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph.

13:8 Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the son of Nun.

13:9 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu.

13:10 Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.

13:11 Of the tribe of Joseph, namely, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi
the son of Susi.

13:12 Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli.

13:13 Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael.

13:14 Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi.

13:15 Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.

13:16 These are the names of the men which Moses sent to spy out the
land.

And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun Jehoshua.

13:17 And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto
them, Get you up this way southward, and go up into the mountain:
13:18 And see the land, what it is, and the people that dwelleth
therein, whether they be strong or weak, few or many; 13:19 And what
the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad; and what
cities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents, or in strong
holds; 13:20 And what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whether
there be wood therein, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of
the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the firstripe
grapes.

13:21 So they went up, and searched the land from the wilderness of
Zin unto Rehob, as men come to Hamath.

13:22 And they ascended by the south, and came unto Hebron; where
Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were. (Now Hebron
was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)  13:23 And they came unto
the brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with one
cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and they
brought of the pomegranates, and of the figs.

13:24 The place was called the brook Eshcol, because of the cluster of
grapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence.

13:25 And they returned from searching of the land after forty days.

13:26 And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the
congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran,
to Kadesh; and brought back word unto them, and unto all the
congregation, and shewed them the fruit of the land.

13:27 And they told him, and said, We came unto the land whither thou
sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this is the
fruit of it.

13:28 Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land, and
the cities are walled, and very great: and moreover we saw the
children of Anak there.

13:29 The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south: and the Hittites,
and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, dwell in the mountains: and the
Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast of Jordan.

13:30 And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go
up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.

13:31 But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up
against the people; for they are stronger than we.

13:32 And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had
searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which
we have gone to search it, is a land that eateth up the inhabitants
thereof; and all the people that we saw in it are men of a great
stature.

13:33 And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of the
giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were
in their sight.

14:1 And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and
the people wept that night.

14:2 And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against
Aaron: and the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we
had died in the land of Egypt! or would God we had died in this
wilderness!  14:3 And wherefore hath the LORD brought us unto this
land, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be
a prey? were it not better for us to return into Egypt?  14:4 And they
said one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return into
Egypt.

14:5 Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly
of the congregation of the children of Israel.

14:6 And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, which
were of them that searched the land, rent their clothes: 14:7 And they
spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The
land, which we passed through to search it, is an exceeding good land.

14:8 If the LORD delight in us, then he will bring us into this land,
and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey.

14:9 Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neither fear ye the people of
the land; for they are bread for us: their defence is departed from
them, and the LORD is with us: fear them not.

14:10 But all the congregation bade stone them with stones. And the
glory of the LORD appeared in the tabernacle of the congregation
before all the children of Israel.

14:11 And the LORD said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke
me?  and how long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signs
which I have shewed among them?  14:12 I will smite them with the
pestilence, and disinherit them, and will make of thee a greater
nation and mightier than they.

14:13 And Moses said unto the LORD, Then the Egyptians shall hear it,
(for thou broughtest up this people in thy might from among them;)
14:14 And they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land: for they
have heard that thou LORD art among this people, that thou LORD art
seen face to face, and that thy cloud standeth over them, and that
thou goest before them, by day time in a pillar of a cloud, and in a
pillar of fire by night.

14:15 Now if thou shalt kill all this people as one man, then the
nations which have heard the fame of thee will speak, saying, 14:16
Because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land which
he sware unto them, therefore he hath slain them in the wilderness.

14:17 And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my LORD be great,
according as thou hast spoken, saying, 14:18 The LORD is
longsuffering, and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and
transgression, and by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the
iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth
generation.

14:19 Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity of this people according
unto the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast forgiven this
people, from Egypt even until now.

14:20 And the LORD said, I have pardoned according to thy word: 14:21
But as truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory
of the LORD.

14:22 Because all those men which have seen my glory, and my miracles,
which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have tempted me now
these ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice; 14:23 Surely they
shall not see the land which I sware unto their fathers, neither shall
any of them that provoked me see it: 14:24 But my servant Caleb,
because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully,
him will I bring into the land whereinto he went; and his seed shall
possess it.

14:25 (Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwelt in the valley.)
Tomorrow turn you, and get you into the wilderness by the way of the
Red sea.

14:26 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 14:27 How
long shall I bear with this evil congregation, which murmur against
me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they
murmur against me.

14:28 Say unto them, As truly as I live, saith the LORD, as ye have
spoken in mine ears, so will I do to you: 14:29 Your carcases shall
fall in this wilderness; and all that were numbered of you, according
to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward which have
murmured against me.

14:30 Doubtless ye shall not come into the land, concerning which I
sware to make you dwell therein, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and
Joshua the son of Nun.

14:31 But your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, them will
I bring in, and they shall know the land which ye have despised.

14:32 But as for you, your carcases, they shall fall in this
wilderness.

14:33 And your children shall wander in the wilderness forty years,
and bear your whoredoms, until your carcases be wasted in the
wilderness.

14:34 After the number of the days in which ye searched the land, even
forty days, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, even
forty years, and ye shall know my breach of promise.

14:35 I the LORD have said, I will surely do it unto all this evil
congregation, that are gathered together against me: in this
wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.

14:36 And the men, which Moses sent to search the land, who returned,
and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up a
slander upon the land, 14:37 Even those men that did bring up the evil
report upon the land, died by the plague before the LORD.

14:38 But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, which
were of the men that went to search the land, lived still.

14:39 And Moses told these sayings unto all the children of Israel:
and the people mourned greatly.

14:40 And they rose up early in the morning, and gat them up into the
top of the mountain, saying, Lo, we be here, and will go up unto the
place which the LORD hath promised: for we have sinned.

14:41 And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment
of the LORD? but it shall not prosper.

14:42 Go not up, for the LORD is not among you; that ye be not smitten
before your enemies.

14:43 For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before you, and
ye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned away from the LORD,
therefore the LORD will not be with you.

14:44 But they presumed to go up unto the hill top: nevertheless the
ark of the covenant of the LORD, and Moses, departed not out of the
camp.

14:45 Then the Amalekites came down, and the Canaanites which dwelt in
that hill, and smote them, and discomfited them, even unto Hormah.

15:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 15:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land
of your habitations, which I give unto you, 15:3 And will make an
offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice in
performing a vow, or in a freewill offering, or in your solemn feasts,
to make a sweet savour unto the LORD, of the herd or of the flock:
15:4 Then shall he that offereth his offering unto the LORD bring a
meat offering of a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of
an hin of oil.

15:5 And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering shalt
thou prepare with the burnt offering or sacrifice, for one lamb.

15:6 Or for a ram, thou shalt prepare for a meat offering two tenth
deals of flour mingled with the third part of an hin of oil.

15:7 And for a drink offering thou shalt offer the third part of an
hin of wine, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:8 And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a
sacrifice in performing a vow, or peace offerings unto the LORD: 15:9
Then shall he bring with a bullock a meat offering of three tenth
deals of flour mingled with half an hin of oil.

15:10 And thou shalt bring for a drink offering half an hin of wine,
for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:11 Thus shall it be done for one bullock, or for one ram, or for a
lamb, or a kid.

15:12 According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to
every one according to their number.

15:13 All that are born of the country shall do these things after
this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour
unto the LORD.

15:14 And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you in
your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet
savour unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.

15:15 One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, and
also for the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for ever
in your generations: as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the
LORD.
